CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 317-2023, passed 6-13-2023
State legislation current through KRS 2023 Acts
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY
MAYOR
James Purcell
COUNCILMEMBERS
Michelle Bohman
Joe Dusing
Greg Livingood
Ange Morris
Leo Saylor
Bobby Tanner
CITY ATTORNEY
Alex Edmondson
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
Shawn McHolland
ASSISTANT CITY CLERK
Michelle King
FIRE CHIEF
Lee Burton
MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR
J.D. Dezarn
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER / ABC OFFICER
Daniel Martin
SPECIAL PROJECTS COORDINATOR
Jennifer Thurman-Humprhey
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NUMBER 164-2002
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; AND PROVIDING WHEN THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1. That the Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 10 to 81, and
Tables 1 to 10, each inclusive, be and is hereby adopted and enacted as the
"Code of Ordinances of CRITTENDEN, Kentucky," and shall be treated and
considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede
all other general and permanent ordinances of the City passed on or before
October 10, 2000, to the extent provided in Section 2 hereof.
SECTION 2. That all provisions of such Code shall be in full force and effect
from and after the date of adoption and all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature of the City of CRITTENDEN enacted on final passage on or
before October 10, 2000, and not included in such Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the
date of adoption except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 3. That the repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect
the following:
      (A)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this ordinance;
      (B)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for
the City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence
of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
      (C)   Any ordinance authorizing the execution of agreements with other
governments or agencies;
      (D)   Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City;
      (E)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (F)   Any right of franchise granted to any person, firm, or corporation;
      (G)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or
public way in the City;
      (H)   Any ordinance establishing any official position of the City which
is not specifically referred to in the Code;
      (I)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor;
      (J)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in
the City, or providing regulations for the same;
      (K)   Any ordinance annexing property to the City;
      (L)   Any zoning ordinance or amendment thereto, except as inconsistent
with the said code provisions;
      (M)   Any subdivision ordinance or amendment thereto;
      (N)   Any taxation ordinance;
      (O)   Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific
locations, prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking
prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading
zones, or dealing with parking meters, parking meter zones or flow of traffic
generally, not inconsistent with such Code;
      (P)   Any ordinance dealing with the electric, water, sewer or sewage
disposal utilities of the City or fixing charges for use of such facilities;
      (Q)   Any ordinance enacted after October 10, 2000, nor shall such repeal
be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that is repealed
by this ordinance.
SECTION 4. That a copy of said Code of Ordinances as adopted shall be placed on
file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available to public
inspection in said office.
SECTION 5. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This ordinance to be published
according to law.
FIRST READING:               April 2, 2002
SECOND READING AND ENACTMENT:    May 7, 2002
DATE OF PUBLICATION:            May 16, 2002
CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY
ORDINANCE NO 199-2008
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2008 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crittenden, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crittenden:
   SECTION 1. That the 2008 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Crittenden, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   FIRST READING: August 5, 2008
   SECOND READING: September 2, 2008
Passed, approved and ordered published this 2nd day of September, 2008.
                        CITY OF CRITTENDEN
                        Ralph Byrley /s/
                        Crittenden - Mayor
ATTEST:    Megan Simpson /s/  
      Crittenden- City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO 218-2011
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crittenden, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crittenden:
   SECTION 1. That the S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crittenden, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   FIRST READING: July 12, 2011
   SECOND READING: August 2, 2011
Passed, approved and ordered published this 2nd day of August, 2011
                        CITY OF CRITTENDEN
                        James C. Livingwood /s/
                        Crittenden - Mayor
ATTEST:    Megan Simpson /s/  
      Crittenden - City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO 254-2016
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2016 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crittenden, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crittenden:
   SECTION 1. That the 2016 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Crittenden, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   FIRST READING:      December 6, 2016
   SECOND READING:   January 3, 2017
Passed, approved and ordered published this 3rd day of January 2017.
                        CITY OF CRITTENDEN
                        James C. Livingood /s/
                        James C. Livingood - Mayor
ATTEST:    Megan Simpson /s/
      Megan Simpson - City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO 265-2018
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF CRITTENDEN, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crittenden, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crittenden:
   SECTION 1. That the 2018 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Crittenden, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   FIRST READING:      October 2, 2018
   SECOND READING:   November 6, 2018
Passed, approved and ordered published this 6th day of November 2018.
                        CITY OF CRITTENDEN
                        James C. Livingood /s/
                        James C. Livingood - Mayor
ATTEST:    Megan Simpson /s/
      Megan Simpson - City Clerk/Treasurer
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
CHAPTER 10   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
10.001   Code designation
   
10.002   Definitions
   
10.003   Rules of construction
   
10.004   Signatures and writings
   
10.005   Severability of parts of code
   
10.006   Rights or liability accrued before repeal of ordinance
   
10.007   Ordinances affected by codification
   
10.008   Conflicting sections or provisions
   
10.009   Omissions or errors
   
10.010   Historical references
   
10.011   Titles, articles, division, and section headings
   
10.012   References to code
   
10.999   General penalty
§ 10.001 CODE DESIGNATION
   All ordinances contained within this and the following chapters that are of
a general and permanent nature and as revised, codified, rearranged,
renumbered, and consolidated here shall be known and designated as “The Code of
the City of Crittenden, Kentucky”, and may be cited as such. This codification
may also be known as “codified ordinances”, the “code” or “Crittenden Code”.
Code titles, chapters, and section headings or catchlines shall not be
construed as any part of the law contained herein.
§ 10.002 DEFINITIONS
   In the construction of this code and for purposes of this code, the
following definitions shall apply, unless inconsistent with the text or unless
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   “ACTION”. Includes all proceedings in any court in the Commonwealth.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   “AND” or “OR.” The word “and” may be read as “or” and “or” may be read as
“and”, where the context requires it.
   “ARTICLE.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code, setting apart a
group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading. Not all
chapters have articles.
   “AVIS.” The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   “CITY” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code, the City of Crittenden,
located in Grant County, except as otherwise provided.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL” or “CITY COUNCIL.” The city legislative body of Crittenden,
Kentucky.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Grant County, Kentucky.
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” The United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of
any other state.
(KRS 446.010 (18))
   “KRS.” The Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and other hereditaments
and all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilmember.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   “LIVESTOCK.” Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, procine, caprine, equine or camelid
species. (KRS 446.0110(25)
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
   (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
    (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
   (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly or
by implication by the city;
   (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a superior
power other than the law;
   (5)   Has some permanency;
   (6)   Requires an official oath;
   (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
   (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of the City Council, which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” Includes bodies-politic and corporate, societies, communities, the
public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real property.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal and other property.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years in which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.” An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the
legislative body on some matter of ministerial business which has come before
the body. (While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal order,
involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution is a less formal mechanism
for dealing with matters of a special or temporary character.)
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches to them and all other public thoroughfares
within the city. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or path, unless
the sidewalk or path is so excluded, or unless such construction is
inconsistent with the intent of the City Council.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, along or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists wherein there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   (A)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   (B)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only may extend and be
applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Singular/Plural. A word importing the singular number only may extend
and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing,
and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one
person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Terms/Technical Terms. All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law, shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
   (F)   Officers/Agents of City. All officers, agents, employees and other
persons, together with all things and places referred to in this code, unless a
different intention appears, shall be construed to mean the officers, agents,
employees and other persons, things and places situated in the city or employed
by or pertaining to the city.
   (G)   Acts Prohibited. All acts prohibited or punishable under this code or
under any particular ordinance codified here, unless otherwise indicated, shall
be construed to refer to those acts when committed or occurring within the city
limits or in other places over which the police may have jurisdiction or
authority by state law.
   (H)   Computation of Time.
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable statute or regulation, the day of the act, event or
default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one (1)
of the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is
less than seven (7) days intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays
shall be excluded in the computation.
      (2)   When a statute, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before the day on which an event occurs, the day of
the event shall be excluded in computing the time. If the day thereby computed
on which or by which the act is required to be done falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the public office in which the act is
required to be completed is actually and legally closed, the act may be done on
the next day which is none of the days just mentioned.
      (3)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
§ 10.004 SIGNATURES AND WRITINGS
   (A)   Any writing required to be signed under this code shall only be deemed
to be signed when a signature is subscribed at the end or closing of the
writing.
   (B)   Any writing required under the provisions of the code shall include
printings or any other mode of representing words and letters so long as the
language used in the writing is English.
§ 10.005 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.006 RIGHTS OR LIABILITY ACCRUED BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings hereafter shall conform, so far as
practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the part affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.007 ORDINANCES AFFECTED BY CODIFICATION
   (A)   From and after its adoption by City Council and its effective date,
this code shall contain all provisions of a general and permanent nature
pertaining to the titles and subjects included herein. All prior ordinances or
codes pertaining to the titles or subjects contained herein shall be deemed
repealed.
   (B)   All standard codes, rules, and regulations and other subject matter
adopted by ordinance and herein incorporated by reference, together with any
amendments as made from time to time, and future incorporations by reference
shall be construed to have full force and effect as if set out herein; and a
copy of such codes, rules, and regulations shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk/Treasurer, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and any other
ordinances not pertaining to titles and subjects included in this code shall
remain in full force and effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (D)   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer, employee, or agent to make additional
ordinances, rules, or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of
the ordinance; all ordinances, rules, and regulations of a similar nature
serving the same purpose, effected prior to the adoption of this code and not
inconsistent with this code, shall remain in effect.
§ 10.008 CONFLICTING SECTIONS OR PROVISIONS
   If any of the provisions, codes, chapters, articles, divisions, or sections
of this code conflict with or contradict another provision, code, chapter,
article, division, or section; the provisions with the latest date of enactment
or adoption shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same date of
enactment or adoption, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent
with the meaning or legal effect of the subject matter when taken as a whole.
§ 10.009 OMISSIONS OR ERRORS
   If an error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word or
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intent of the
provisions, or the use of a word for which a meaning within the intent of the
provision cannot be defined, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended, the error shall be corrected by substituting a
correct spelling of the word or words, or adding the omitted word or words, or
deleting the word or words found to be in error to conform with the original
intent of the provision. The provision shall have the same force and effect as
though the correct words were originally contained within the text of this
code. No alteration shall be made if any question exists regarding the nature
or extent of the error.
§ 10.010 HISTORICAL REFERENCES
   (A)   All reference information contained within this code is intended for
the use of the reader; however, it shall not be construed to be a part of any
ordinance or amendment to any ordinance codified here.
   (B)   All amendments to ordinances from and after the adoption of the
ordinance are listed following previous ordinance information as an amendment
to that ordinance. (Example: Ord. 5-89, passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 6-90, passed
3-1-90.)
   (C)   If a cite to the Kentucky Revised Statutes is included in the history
of a provision or section, this indicates that the text of the section reads
word-for-word from the statutes. (Example: KRS 446.010). If a cite from the
Kentucky Revised Statutes is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that additional information may be found
within the referenced section of the statutes.
   (D)   Cross references which are found at the end of any provision or
section refer to another section of the code where additional information about
a particular subject may be found.
   (E)   Where additional information of some nature is required or provided
that cannot otherwise be explained or corrected, or when a question of
completeness or correction has arisen in the publication of this code that
cannot otherwise be completed or corrected before publication of this code; a
footnote, numbered and set out at the end of the page, shall provide
explanation of the additional information, correction, or question.
   (F)   Sections with no historical reference or data indicate that the
section is originally enacted by the adoption of this code.
§ 10.011 TITLES, ARTICLES, DIVISIONS, AND SECTION HEADINGS
   The catchlines or headings of all chapters, articles, divisions,
subchapters, or sections, or other provisions of this code printed in
italicized type, bold type, or which are capitalized are intended as words to
indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed to be titles of
the sections, nor a part of the sections, unless so provided by the ordinance
from which the sections were derived.
§ 10.012 REFERENCES TO CODE
   All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subchapters, or sections
contained within the provisions of this code are to the chapters, articles,
divisions, subchapters, or sections of this code, unless otherwise specified.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY
   When any person, firm, or corporation is convicted of a violation of any
provision of this code and no penalty is otherwise provided, the person, firm,
or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined an
amount not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of city ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
TITLE 2: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION/ADMINISTRATION
   
CHAPTER 20   ELECTED OFFICIALS
   
CHAPTER 21   NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
   
CHAPTER 22   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AUTHORITIES
   
CHAPTER 23   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
   
CHAPTER 24   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
CHAPTER 25   PUBLIC MEETINGS
   
CHAPTER 26   ETHICS CODE
   
CHAPTER 27   PERSONNEL POLICIES
   
CHAPTER 28   TAXATION
   
CHAPTER 29   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 20: ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
20.001   Organization
   
20.002   Election procedure
   
20.003   Oath of office
   
20.004   Bond
   
20.005   Indemnification of elected officials
   
20.006   Compensation of elected officers, appointed officials and employees
ARTICLE II. MAYOR
   
20.100   Election
   
20.101   Term
   
20.102   Qualifications
   
20.103   Vacancy
   
20.104   Resignation
   
20.105   Powers; duties
   
20.106   Delegation of authority
ARTICLE III. CITY COUNCIL
   
20.200   Election
   
20.201   Term
   
20.202   Qualifications
   
20.203   Vacancies
   
20.204   Resignation
   
20.205   Quorum
   
20.206   Removal
   
20.207   Immunity
   
20.208   Meetings
   
20.209   Duties
   
20.210   Ordinances
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 20.001 ORGANIZATION
   (A)   The city shall be organized and governed under the Mayor-Council plan
of government.
   (B)   The government shall be composed of an elected executive who shall be
called Mayor and an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and of such other officers and employees as may be provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall be composed of six (6) members.
(KRS 83A.030, 83A.130)
§ 20.002 ELECTION PROCEDURE
   (A)   As authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(1), the city shall forego the
conducting of a nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates
to city office, regardless of the number of candidates running for each office.
All candidates are required to file their nomination papers with the County
Clerk no earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of
the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on the ballot and
no later than the second Tuesday in August before the day affixed by KRS
Chapter 118 for holding a regular election for the office.
(Ord. 47-1998, passed 1-3-89)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred and forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that
office, except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 20.003 OATH OF OFFICE
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of ________ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a
citizen of this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by
Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering the oath of office to
an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered,
and the date of its administration. The written certification shall be filed in
accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 20.004 BOND
   (A)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, and special districts who
handle public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and
sufficient bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest
performance of his or her duties and as security for all money coming into that
person's hands or under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based
upon the maximum amount of public funds the officer, official, or employee
handles at any given time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body
shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their officers covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to
have complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 20.005 INDEMNIFICATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
   (A)   The city shall provide for the defense of any elected official in any
action in tort arising out of an act or omission occurring within the scope of
his office.
   (B)   The city shall pay any judgment based thereon or any compromise or
settlement of any such action in tort except as provided in subsection (C).
   (C)   The city may refuse to pay a judgment or settlement in any action
against an elected official, or if the city pays any claim or judgment against
any elected official pursuant to subsection (B), it may recover against the
official the amount of the payment and the cost to defend it:
      (1)   If the elected official failed to act because of fraud, malice, or
corruption;
      (2)   If the action was outside the apparent scope of his duties; or
      (3)   If the elected official willfully refused to assist in the defense
or the cause of action in good faith.
§ 20.006 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICERS, APPOINTED OFFICIALS, AND EMPLOYEES
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of
every elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year
the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his election or during his term of office.
      (2)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with a personnel and pay classification
plan which shall be adopted by ordinance.
      (3)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the
city treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any
officer or employee.
      (4)   The City Council may, by ordinance, establish the compensation for
any elective or appointive city office on a salaried or per diem basis.
(KRS 83A.070)
   (B)   Equating the compensation with purchasing power of dollar.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) per annum and the
Mayor in cities other than the first class and legislative body members shall
be paid at a rate no greater than seven thousand two hundred dollars
($7,200.00) per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of the officer in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
Cross reference:
   Personnel policies, see
Ch. 27
   Personnel, rates of compensation, see Tables of Special Ordinances,
Table 6
ARTICLE II. MAYOR
§ 20.100 ELECTION
   The Mayor shall be elected at a regular election.
(83A.040(1))
§ 20.101 TERM
   The term of office of the Mayor shall begin on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for four (4) years and until his or
her successor qualifies.
(83A.040(1))
§ 20.102 QUALIFICATIONS
   (A)   A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of the city for not less
than one year prior to his or her election.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be at least twenty-five (25) year of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
§ 20.103 VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the following provisions shall
apply:
   (A)   The City Council shall fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days.
   (B)   A Councilmember may not vote for himself or herself to fill the
position of Mayor.
   (C)   When voting to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
   (D)   The City Council shall elect, from among its members, an individual to
preside over meetings of the Council during any vacancy in the office of Mayor.
   (E)   If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or
her duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of the Mayor
may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (F)   If, for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Mayor is not filled
within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
   (G)   If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy
and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not
be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
(KRS 83A.040, 83A.130)
§ 20.104 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of Mayor shall
occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation date is
tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.105 POWERS; DUTIES
   The Mayor shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council plan, city ordinances and
orders, and all applicable statutes.
   (B)   The Mayor shall supervise all departments of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under his jurisdiction and shall
require each department to make reports to him required by ordinance or as he
deems desirable.
   (C)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
   (D)   The Mayor shall report to the City Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendation for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
   (E)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (F)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. The Mayor may
participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a vote, except that he
may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
   (G)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city shall
be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive order.
   (H)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and
remove all city employees, except as tenure and terms of employment are
protected by statute, ordinance, or contract, and except for employees of the
City Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the functions
of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties of his
office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed in
accordance with §
20.106, provided that the Mayor shall not delegate the responsibility of
presiding at meetings of the Council and that approving ordinances or
promulgating administrative procedures may only be delegated to an elected
officer. With approval of the City Council, the Mayor may rescind any action
taken in his absence under this subsection within thirty (30) days of such
action. If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties
persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the City Council and the provisions of KRS 83A.040
shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 20.106 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
   Any delegation of the Mayor’s powers, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by year and shall be kept in a permanent
file.
(KRS 83A.130)
ARTICLE III. CITY COUNCIL
§ 20.200 ELECTION
   Each City Council member shall be elected at-large at a regular election.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.201 TERM
   The term of office for a Councilmember shall begin on the first day of
January following his or her election and shall be for two (2) years.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.202 QUALIFICATIONS
   (A)   A candidate for Councilmember shall be a resident of the city for not
less than one year prior to his or her election.
   (B)   A Councilmember shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, shall
be qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.203 VACANCIES
   (A)   If one (1) or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way that
one (1) or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within
thirty (30) days, fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new
appointee reasonable notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act
with the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies
are filled.
   (B)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in subsection (A).
   (C)   If, for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Councilmember is not
filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly
fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the
same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(5), (6))
§ 20.204 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Councilmember shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.205 QUORUM
   A majority of the City Council shall constitute a quorum and a vote of a
majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060)
§ 20.206 REMOVAL
   (A)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, incapacity, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his office, may be removed from
office by a unanimous vote of the City Council, exclusive of any member to be
removed who shall not vote in the deliberation of his removal.
   (B)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, shall have the right
to appeal to the Grant Circuit Court, and the appeal shall be on the record.
   (C)   No officer so removed shall be eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which he or she was originally elected.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.207 IMMUNITY
   For anything said in debate, City Councilmembers shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
§ 20.208 MEETINGS
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. In the event
that the Mayor shall be absent from a meeting of the City Council, then prior
to conducting any other business, the City Council shall have the power to act
and appoint someone to act as Mayor Pro tem.
(Ord. 16-86, passed 10-4-86)
   (B)   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be conducted at the
Crittenden City building at 7:00 p.m. on the Second and fourth Tuesdays of each
month. If a regular meeting date falls on a legal holiday, then it shall be
automatically rescheduled for the next Tuesday at the same time.
(Ord. 302-2022, passed 3-22-22)
   (C)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or
Council shall designate the purpose, the time and place of the special meeting
with sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance
with KRS Chapter 61. At a special meeting no business may be considered other
than that set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(KRS 83A.130)
§ 20.209 DUTIES
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the City Council. The Council shall not perform any executive functions
except those functions assigned to it by statute.
   (B)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices
and the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, provide for sufficient revenue
to operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a
budget which shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
   (D)   The City Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of
city government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding his performance of his
official duties. Any statement required by the City Council to be submitted or
any investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or
agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted
or undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given
to the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before
submission to the City Council and to appear personally or through his designee
on behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any
investigation.
(KRS 83A.130)
§ 20.210 ORDINANCES
   (A)   Title. Each ordinance shall embrace only one (1) subject and shall
have a title that shall clearly state the subject.
   (B)   Enacting clause. Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and
shall have an enacting clause styled, “Be it ordained by the City of
Crittenden”.
   (C)   Amendments. No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title
only, and an ordinance to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or
section indicating any words being added by a single solid line drawn
underneath them, and any words being deleted by a single broken line drawn
through them.
   (D)   Reading. Except as provided in subsection (F) of this section, no
ordinance shall be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The
reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a
summary rather than the full text.
   (E)   Adoption by reference. The City Council may adopt the provisions of
any local, statewide, or nationally recognized standard code and codifications
of entire bodies of local legislation by an ordinance that identifies the
subject matter by title, source and date, and incorporates the adopted
provisions by reference without setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies
the adopting ordinance and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
   (F)   Emergency. In an emergency, upon the affirmation vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of
second reading and publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective
by naming and describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication
requirements of subsection (H) of this section shall be complied with within
ten (10) days of the enactment of the emergency ordinance.
   (G)   Permanent record. Every action of the City Council shall be made a
part of the permanent records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the
vote of each member of the City Council shall be entered on the official record
of each meeting. All ordinances adopted in the city shall, at the end of each
month, be indexed and maintained in the following manner:
      (1)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
      (2)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in a code of ordinances.
      (3)   At least once every five (5) years, the city shall cause all
ordinances in the composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for
consistency with state law and with one another, and to be revised to eliminate
redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
   (H)   Publication.
      (1)   No ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
      (2)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
the City Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth and shall include the following:
         (a)   The title of the ordinance;
         (b)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner the meaning of the ordinance; and
         (c)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
      (3)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
   (I)   Signature or veto by Mayor. All ordinances adopted by the City Council
shall be submitted to the Mayor who shall, within ten (10) days after
submission, either approve the ordinance by affixing his signature or
disapprove it by returning it to the Council together with a statement of his
objections. No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless
he fails to return it to the Council within ten (10) days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one (1) more than a majority of the membership.
   (J)   Municipal orders.
      (1)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. Orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
      (2)   A municipal order may be used for matters relating to the internal
operation and functions of the city and to appoint or remove or approve
appointment or removal of members of boards, Councils, and other agencies over
which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
   (K)   Proof. All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the
signature of the City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinance is placed in a
printed composite index or code of ordinances by authority of the city, the
printed copy shall be received in evidence by any state court without further
proof of the ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
CHAPTER 21: NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
21.001   Oath
   
21.002   Bond
   
21.003   Compensation
   
21.004   Training incentive program
ARTICLE II. CITY CLERK/TREASURER
   
21.100   Office established
   
21.101   Oath; bond; compensation
   
21.102   Duties
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 21.001 OATH
   All non-elected officials of the city shall take the oath of office pursuant
to the provisions of §
20.003.
§ 21.002 BOND
   All non-elected officials shall post bond pursuant to the provisions of §
20.004.
§ 21.003 COMPENSATION
   The City Council shall fix, by ordinance, compensation of all non-elected
officials pursuant to the provisions of §
20.006.
§ 21.004 TRAINING INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the terms below shall have the
following meanings:
      "TRAINING UNIT." Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation
in qualifying courses during a calendar year.
      “EXCESS HOURS.” Credit hours earned beyond fifteen (15) during a single
calendar year.
      “ADMINISTRATOR.” The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training
Center.
      “QUALIFYING COURSE.”Any training, seminar, educational or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been approved by
the administrator.
   (B)   Adoption of a city officials training program; application. In
accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified in KRS
Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a City Officials Training
Program to make available incentive payments as specified by this section to
the elected city officials, including the mayor and all members of the City
Council, for obtaining education and training as required under the provisions
of this section.
   (C)   Incentive payment amount; required training participation.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of one-hundred
dollars ($100.00) for completion of each training unit during his or her
continuous service as a city official within the city. The city official shall
only receive training incentive payments for a maximum of four (4) training
units. The city official shall not be awarded more than one (1) training unit
per calendar year.
      (2)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive
payments for four (4) training units in each calendar year following the fourth
year, provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each
subsequent calendar year.
      (3)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
      (4)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten (10) hours to apply to the
earning of a training unit in the following calendar year.
      (5)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within
sixty (60) days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
   (D)   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses. The
city shall consider reimbursing a city official for the cost of attendance or
participation in a qualifying course upon presentation of proof to the mayor
(or other designated official responsible for budget administration) that the
official has received credit for the course.
   (E)   Administration of city officials training program.
      (1)   The City Officials Training Program for the city shall be
administered by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center,
which shall be responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms
of this section, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and
shall notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the number
of training units earned by a city official during his or her continuous
service as a city official within the city.
      (2)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying
courses by the administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory
duties of cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this section. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
      (3)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation
in a qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the
course name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient
proof of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator's opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
      (4)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within thirty (30) days of
the close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to
each participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
   (F)   Status of incentive payments.
      (1)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS
Chapter 337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement
System under KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting
maximum compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and
may be repealed or modified by the city at any time.
      (2)   The training incentive payment amount established in this section
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 220-2011, passed 10-4-11)
ARTICLE II. CITY CLERK/TREASURER
§ 21.100 OFFICE ESTABLISHED
   There is hereby created the office of City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 5-81, passed 6-2-81)
Cross reference:
   Requesting records from City Clerk/Treasurer, see §
24.100
   Referral to proper custodian, see §
24.101
§ 21.101 OATH; BOND; COMPENSATION
   (A)   Oath. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall take the oath of office set forth
in Section 228 of the Constitution of Kentucky. The oath of office shall be
administered by the Mayor.
   (B)   Bond. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall post bond with sufficient surety
in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
   (C)   Compensation. Compensation for the office of City Clerk/Treasurer
shall be according to the personnel and pay classification schedule of the
city.
(Ord. 5-81, passed 6-2-81)
Cross reference:
   Oath, see §
20.003
   Bond, see §
20.004
   Compensation, see §
20.006
   Personnel, see
Ch. 27
§ 21.102 DUTIES
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the custodian of all city records
and shall keep the minutes of the proceedings of the City Council.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city;
      (4)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall, no later than January 31 of each
year, mail to the Department for Local Government, a list containing current
city information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, City Councilmembers, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute, ordinance, the class specifications of the
city’s Personnel Classification Plan, and related duties as requested.
(Ord. 5-81, passed 6-2-81)
Statutory Reference:
   Regulations for City Clerk/Treasurer, see KRS 83A.085
CHAPTER 22: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
ARTICLE I. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
   
22.100   Created
   
22.101   Powers; duties
   
22.102   Members
   
22.103   Funding
   
22.104   Cooperative effort
ARTICLE II. OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
22.200   Board of Ethics
   
22.201   Board of Adjustment
   
22.202   Code Enforcement Board
ARTICLE I. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 22.100 CREATED
   There is hereby created, pursuant to KRS 154.50-316, a body politic and
corporate, to be known as Crittenden Industrial Development Authority.
(Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-3-93)
§ 22.101 POWERS, DUTIES
   The authority shall be governed by the provisions of KRS 154.50-301 to
154.50-346 and shall have and exercise those powers and duties enumerated
therein.
(Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-3-93)
§ 22.102 MEMBERS
   Members shall be appointed by the Mayor in accordance with KRS 154.50-316
and KRS 154.50-326.
(Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-3-93)
§ 22.103 FUNDING
   Funding for the Crittenden Industrial Development Authority shall be
accomplished in accordance with KRS 154.50-340.
(Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-3-93)
§ 22.104 COOPERATIVE EFFORT
   The Industrial Development Authority may work cooperatively with any other
similarly constituted authority within or without the city in any instance
where such cooperative effort is permitted by law.
(Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-3-93)
ARTICLE II. OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 22.200 BOARD OF ETHICS
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
26.400 through
26.410.
§ 22.201 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustment, see
Chapter 81, Article XVIII.
§ 22.202 CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      "ABATEMENT COSTS." A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
      "CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD." An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839.
      "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." A city police officer, safety officer,
citation officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to
issue a citation.
      "FINAL ORDER." Any order:
         (a)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with division
(J)(5) or (6) below;
         (b)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with and
division (J)(5) below and that is not appealed to the Code Enforcement Board as
provided in division (J)(6) below;
         (c)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the
citation within seven (7) days as provided in division (I)(6) below; or
         (d)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in division (J)(3)
below.
      "IMMINENT DANGER." A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      "ORDINANCE." An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
      "OWNER." A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
      "PREMISES." A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon
it.
   (B)   Creation and membership. There is hereby created pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be
composed of three (3) members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a
period of at least one (1) year prior to their appointment and shall reside
there throughout the term in office.
   (C)   Enforcement powers.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce
any ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
   (D)   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation.
      (1)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
      (2)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
         (a)   One-third (1/3) of the membership of the Board shall be
appointed for a term of one (1) year;
         (b)   One-third (1/3) of the membership of the Board shall be
appointed for a term of two (2) years;
         (c)   One-third (1/3) of the membership of the Board shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years.
      (3)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years.
A member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
      (4)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two (2) alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement
Board in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of
the qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply
to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
      (5)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive
authority, subject to approval of the legislative body, within sixty (60) days
of the vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the
remaining Code Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (6)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive
authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The
executive authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the
legislative body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed
shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
      (7)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering
upon the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section
228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
      (8)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for
actual expenses and compensated in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per meeting.
      (9)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
non- elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the
city.
   (E)   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among
its members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
      (2)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Thursday of every third month beginning with the month of January and
continuing each third month thereafter. Meetings other than those regularly
scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance
with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
      (4)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire
membership shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a
quorum of the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
      (5)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   Conflict of interest. Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has
any direct or indirect financial or personal interest in any matter to be
decided shall disclose the nature of the interest, disqualify himself from
voting on the matter in which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (G)   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board. The Code Enforcement Board shall
have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this section.
      (2)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
      (3)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer.
      (4)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairman shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
      (5)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
      (6)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
      (7)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with
division (H) below.
   (H)   Hearing officers.
      (1)   Eligibility.
         (a)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members,
including the Chair, to be a hearing officer.
         (b)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the
Board to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any
elected or appointed office or position of employment with the city.
      (2)   Experience and training.
         (a)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code
Enforcement Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the
code enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party's
fundamental due process right to:
            1.   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
            2.   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
            3.   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
            4.   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
         (b)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
         (c)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
         (d)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this division
and any additional standards established in writing by the Board. The Board
shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has determined that
the affidavit satisfies the experience or training requirements.
      (3)   Hearing powers and procedures.
         (a)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses
prior to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and
evidence.
         (b)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in division (J) below.
      (4)   Final order.
         (a)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with division (J)(5) or (6) below.
         (b)   Within twenty-four (24) hours of entry, these findings,
conclusions, and final order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to
the Code Enforcement Board. The findings, conclusions, and recommended order
may be delivered to the alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the delivery.
      (5)   Appeal from final order.
         (a)   An alleged violator may appeal a final order issued by a hearing
officer to the Code Enforcement Board.
         (b)   The appeal shall be filed in writing to the Code Enforcement
Board within seven (7) days of receipt of the final order. Failure to file an
appeal within seven (7) days shall render the order final for all purposes.
         (c)   An alleged violator shall exhaust the administrative remedy of
appeal to the Code Enforcement Board before pursuing an appeal to District
Court in accordance with division (L) below.
   (I)   Enforcement proceedings. The following requirements shall govern all
enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
      (1)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of
a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to division(Q)
below, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
         (a)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
         (b)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18)
years of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on
the premises at the time the citation is issued; or
         (c)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to
the last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
         (d)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in division (I)(3)(a), (b) or (c) above is
not possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises and mailing a copy of the
citation by regular, first-class mail to the owner of record of the property,
if no one is on the premises at the time the citation is issued.
      (4)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain
the following information:
         (a)   The date and time of issuance;
         (b)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is
issued;
         (c)   The physical address of the premises where the violation
occurred;
         (d)   The date and time the offense was committed;
         (e)   The facts constituting the offense;
         (f)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
         (g)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
         (h)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including,
if applicable:
            1.   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
            2.   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person
elects to contest the citation.
         (i)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
         (j)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (5)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the
citation to the City Clerk.
      (6)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
   (J)   Hearing; notice; and final order.
      (1)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or
its administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
      (2)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the
Code Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place
of the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen years (18) of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
      (3)   (a)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the
time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to
a hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
         (b)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator
by regular first class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
      (4)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and
recorded. Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the
alleged violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code
Enforcement Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not
apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the
proceedings.
      (5)   If the Code Enforcement Board is reviewing a final order entered by
a hearing officer on appeal as authorized by division (H)(5) above, the Board
shall review the record created before the hearing officer and determine
whether there is substantial evidence on the record to support the finding of
the hearing officer. If the Code Enforcement Board determines there is not
substantial evidence on the record, it shall enter an order dismissing the
citation. If the Board determines that there is substantial evidence on the
record, it shall issue a final order upholding the order entered by the hearing
officer. The provisions of this section shall apply to any appeal hearing
conducted pursuant to this division.
      (6)   (a)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
         (b)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the
final order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class
mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice.
   (K)   Presentation of cases. Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or
assigned hearing officer shall be presented by an attorney selected by the
city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a member of the city's
administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer, or may present cases before the Board or
hearing officer, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
   (L)   Appeals; final judgment.
      (1)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or
assigned hearing officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to division (J)
(5) above may be made to the Grant County District Court within thirty (30)
days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (L)(1) above, the order shall be deemed final
for all purposes.
   (M)   Ordinance fine schedule. Violations of ordinances that are enforced by
the Code Enforcement Board or an assigned hearing officer shall be subject to
the following schedule of civil fines.
 
Violation                       1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals                         $25.00      $50.00      $100.00
Unsafe and unfit structure code $100.00     $125.00     $150.00
Garbage                         $10.00      $25.00      $50.00
Occupational license            $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Weeds                           $10.00      $25.00      $50.00
 
   (N)   Lien; fines, charges, and fees.
      (1)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found
by a nonappealable final order as defined by division (A) above, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance. The
lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
      (2)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following
the date of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
      (3)   Subject to division (P) below, the lien shall take precedence over
all other liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be
enforced by judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
      (4)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (N)(1) above, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible
for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the
enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the
person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (O)   Lienholder notification system. The city shall obtain and maintain
priority over previously filed liens, as provided in division (N) above, in
accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this section.
      (2)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit
the following information to the City Clerk or designated employee:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Mailing address;
         (c)   Phone number; and
         (d)   Electronic mailing address.
      (3)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city
Website to submit the information required by division (O)(2) above. It shall
be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
      (4)   Once every two weeks, the city shall send electronic mail
notification of all final orders entered pursuant to this section since the
last date of notification to each party registered pursuant to this section.
The notification shall provide an electronic link to the Code Enforcement
database located on the city Website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
         (a)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
         (b)   The physical address of the premises where the violation
occurred;
         (c)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises
where the violation occurred, if in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable;
         (d)   A copy of the full citation;
         (e)   A copy of the full final order; and
         (f)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be
appealed pursuant to this section.
      (5)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this section,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
      (6)   The city shall update its Code Enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post this notification required by division (O)
(4) above containing an updated link to the Code Enforcement database in a
conspicuous place on the city Website, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
      (7)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for
ten (10) years following their issuance.
   (P)   Liens.
      (1)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to division (O)
(2) above may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance of
notification under division (O)(4) above:
         (a)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
         (b)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges
and fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action if necessary under division (Q) below.
      (3)   The lien provided by division (N) above shall not take precedence
over previously recorded liens if:
         (a)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of division (O)
above for notification of the final order; or
         (b)   A prior lienholder complied with division (P)(1) above.
      (4)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (P)(3) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
      (5)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in division (P)(1) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied
prior to the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city shall
release the lien in the County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within
fifteen (15) days of satisfaction.
      (6)   Failure of the city to comply with divisions (O) and (P) of this
section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (P)(3) above, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
   (Q)   Immediate action. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
taking immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is
reason to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the
effects of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 259-2017, passed 10-10-17)
______________
Cross reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Chapter 73
CHAPTER 23: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
23.001   Definitions
   
23.002   Accounting records
   
23.003   Annual budget
   
23.004   Annual city audit
   
23.005   Official depositories
ARTICLE II. PROCUREMENT
   
23.100   Definitions
   
23.101   State law regulations to govern procurement
   
23.102   Maintenance of required records
   
23.103   Bidder’s list; vendor prequalification
   
23.104   Sealed bids
   
23.105   Competitive negotiations
   
23.106   Non-competitive negotiations
   
23.107   Small purchase procedures
   
23.108   Multiple and partial contracts
   
23.109   Sureties and bonds; submission of cost or pricing data; inspection of
contractor’s records and place of business
   
23.110   Contract awards not to exceed appropriations
   
23.111   Final procurement decisions to be in writing
   
23.112   Contract modification, termination
   
23.113   Verification and public availability of records
   
23.114   Grant requirements
   
23.115   Equal employment opportunity
   
23.116   Determination of prevailing wage for construction contracts
   
23.117   Cooperative purchasing
   
23.118   Receipt required to process invoice for payment
   
23.119   Sale of surplus, personal property belonging to city
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 23.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning:
   “BUDGET.” A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   “DEBT SERVICE.” The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   “ENCUMBRANCES.” Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   “FISCAL YEAR.” The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.” Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING.” Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 23.002 ACCOUNTING RECORDS
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The city accounting system shall be organized and operated on a fund
basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 23.003 ANNUAL BUDGET
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of law, the city shall not expend any moneys from a
governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance with a budget ordinance
adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year shall
have full force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one (1) fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor, and the budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (F)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the City Council no later than thirty (30) days before the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall: contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, program and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (G)   The City Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations
for the fiscal year in such sums as the Council finds sufficient and proper,
whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The
budget ordinance may be in any form that the Council finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
   (H)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for appropriations
to exceed revenues in any one (1) fiscal year in violation of Section 157b of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Council may amend the budget ordinance after the ordinance is
adopted, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the requirements of this
section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility shall include the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements which shall
include budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three (3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
23.002.
   (M)   No city agency or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency may bind the city in any way or to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void. No city officer shall issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent beyond the unexpended
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 23.004 ANNUAL CITY AUDIT
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten days of the completion of
the audit and its presentation to the city legislative body, pursuant to
division (B)(6) of this section, the city shall forward an electronic copy of
the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information shall be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the
accounting records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, are is on file at city hall
and is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), in the discretion of the court, which may be
recovered only once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The
costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the
resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
Cross reference:  
   Public records, see
Ch. 24
§ 23.005 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one (1)
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor, which shall
state the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable.
(KRS 91A.060)
ARTICLE II. PROCUREMENT
§ 23.100 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AGGREGATE AMOUNT.” The total dollar amount during a fiscal year of items of
a like nature, function, and use, the need of which can reasonably be
determined at the beginning of the fiscal year. Items the need for which could
not reasonably be established in advance or which were unavailable because of a
failure of delivery need not be included in the “AGGREGATE AMOUNT.”
   “CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.” The Mayor, or the person designated by the Mayor
or by City Council to perform the procurement function.
   “CONSTRUCTION.” The process of building, altering, repairing, or improving
any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to
any public real property. “CONSTRUCTION” does not include the routine
operation, routine repair, or routine maintenance of existing structures or
real property.
   “CONTRACT.” All types of city agreements, including grants and orders, for
the purchase or disposal of supplies, services, construction, or any other
item. It includes awards and notice of awards; contracts of a fixed-price,
costs, cost-plus-a-fixed-fee, or incentive type; contracts providing for the
issuance of job or task orders; leases; letter contracts; and purchase orders.
“CONTRACT” also includes supplemental agreements with respect to any of the
foregoing. It does not include labor contracts with employees of local public
agencies.
   “ESTABLISHED CATALOGUE PRICE.” The price included in the most current
catalogue, price list, schedule, or other form that:
   (A)   Is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or vendor of an item;
   (B)   Is either published or otherwise available for inspection by
customers; and
   (C)   States prices at which sales are currently or were last made to a
significant number of buyers constituting the general buying public for that
item.
   “EVALUATED BID PRICE.” The dollar amount of a bid after bid-price
adjustments are made pursuant to objective measurable criteria, set forth in
the invitation for bids, which affects the economy and effectiveness in the
operation or use of the product, such as reliability, maintainability, useful
life, residual value, and time of delivery, performance, or completion.
   “INVITATION FOR BIDS.” All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting bids in accordance with the procedures as
set forth in KRS 45A.365.
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council.
   “LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY.” The City of Crittenden.
   “MAY.” Is permissive. However, the words “no person may…” mean that no
person is required, authorized, or permitted to do the act prescribed.
   “NEGOTIATION.” Contracting by either the methods set forth in KRS 45A.370,
45A.375, or 45A.380.
   “NON-COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATION.” Informal negotiation with one (1) or more
vendors, contractors, or individuals without advertisement or notice.
   “OBJECTIVE MEASURABLE CRITERIA.” Sufficient information in the invitation to
bid as to weight and method of evaluation so that the evaluation may be
determined with reasonable mathematical certainty. Criteria which are otherwise
subjective such as taste and appearance may be established when appropriate.
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   “PROCUREMENT.” The purchasing, buying, renting, leasing, or otherwise
obtaining any supplies, services, or construction. “PROCUREMENT” also includes
all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any public procurement,
including description of sources, preparation and award of contracts, and all
phases of contract administration.
   “REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.” All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting proposals in accordance with the procedures
set forth in KRS 45A.370, 45A.375, 45A.380, or 45A.385.
   “RESPONSIBLE BIDDER” or “RESPONSIBLE OFFEROR.” A person who has the
capability in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements and the
integrity and reliability which will assure good faith performance.
   “RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.” A person who has submitted a bid under KRS 45A.365
which conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids, so that all
bidders may stand on equal footing with respect to the method and timeliness of
submission and as to the substance of any resulting contract.
   “REVERSE AUCTION.” A real-time, structured bidding process, usually lasting
less than one (1) hour, and taking place during a previously scheduled time and
Internet location, during which multiple bidders, anonymous to each other,
submit revised, lower bids to provide the solicited good or leased space.
   “SERVICES.” The rendering by a contractor of its time and effort rather than
the furnishing of a specific end product, other than reports which are merely
incidental to the required performance of service. It does not include labor
contracts with employees of local public agencies.
   “SHALL.” Is imperative.
   “SPECIFICATIONS.” Any description of a physical or functional characteristic
of a supply, service, or construction item. It may include a description of any
requirement for inspecting, testing, or preparing a supply, service, or
construction item for delivery.
   “SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT.” Any contract modification which is accomplished by
the mutual action of the parties.
   “SUPPLIES.” All property, including but not limited to, leases on real
property, printing, and insurance, except land or a permanent interest in land.
(KRS 45A.345)
§ 23.101 STATE LAW REGULATIONS TO GOVERN PROCUREMENT
   Pursuant to KRS 45A.343, the regulations provided in this article, along
with all provisions of KRS 45A.345 through 45A.460, shall govern all
procurement activities. These regulations shall remain in effect unless and
until modified by Council.
§ 23.102 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED RECORDS
   All ordinances and regulations pertaining to procurement, whether
promulgated under this article or otherwise, shall be maintained by the city
and shall be available to the public upon request at a cost not to exceed the
cost of reproduction.
(KRS 45A.360(2))
Cross reference:
   Certain records to be protected from public inspection, see §
24.107
§ 23.103 BIDDER’S LIST; VENDOR PREQUALIFICATION
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to receive written notice of
procurement requirements of the city may make application to have his name
placed on a bidder’s list for the types or kinds of goods or services he wishes
to supply or provide. The city may specify the form to be used and the
procedure to be followed by the prospective vendor to make application for
inclusion on the bidder’s lists.
   (B)   The city may publish a program for vendor prequalification. To
establish a program for vendor prequalification, the city shall solicit from
each prospective vendor sufficient information to permit evaluation of vendor’s
qualifications in terms of the following:
      (1)   The ability and capacity to perform on a timely basis under
contract for goods or services he wishes to bid on and supply;
      (2)   Good character, integrity, reputation, and experience;
      (3)   Satisfactory performance in prior dealings with the city; and
      (4)   Satisfactory performance in dealings with other local government
units, the state, and other state governments.
   (C)   The city may refuse to list any prospective vendor if that vendor does
not meet the minimum requirements established for entry on a bidder’s list. It
is the responsibility of the vendor to show that he meets established
qualifications for entry on the bidder’s list to which he seeks to gain entry.
      (1)   The prospective vendor will be promptly notified if his application
is disapproved and the reason for disapproval shall be stated.
      (2)   A prospective bidder may appeal the disapproval of his application
to the city. The appeal must be filed within two (2) weeks after the date of
the notice of disapproval, and must state the grounds for the appeal with
reasonable particularity and must relate directly to the reason for disapproval
of the application.
      (3)   The city may establish the time at which and the conditions under
which a vendor whose application has been disapproved may reapply for placement
on a bidder’s list.
   (D)   A bid may be accepted from a bidder who has not prequalified, provided
that the bidder submits all information required by the city to make a
determination of the bidder’s qualifications prior to award of the contract.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to govern prequalification of prospective bidders, see KRS
45A.400.
§ 23.104 SEALED BIDS
   All contracts and purchases shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding
as follows, unless otherwise provided in this article.
   (A)   Advertising.
      (1)   All sealed bids shall be advertised not less than seven (7) nor
more than twenty-one (21) days prior to the date set for the opening of bids.
The invitation for bids shall state whether the award shall be made on the
basis of the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated bid price. If the latter
is used, the objective measurable criteria to be utilized shall be set forth in
the invitation for bids.
      (2)   The advertisement shall include the time and place the bids will be
opened and where the specifications may be obtained.
      (3)   Advertisements shall be entered in the newspaper with the largest
circulation within the jurisdiction area of the city.
      (4)   The advertisement for bids may be placed in other publications
when, in the judgment of the city, such advertisement would best secure the
interests of the city.
      (5)   If it is determined during the advertising period that additional
time should be allowed for the preparation of bids, the bid opening date may be
extended by the following methods:
         (a)   Placing a legal notice, specifying the revised bid date in the
local newspaper with the largest circulation. The revised bid opening date
shall be not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty-one (21) days after the
appearance of the legal notice.
         (b)   Issuing an addendum to the invitation for bids. This addendum
shall be in writing, must be mailed or delivered to all holders of the
invitation for bids, and must be acknowledged on the form of proposal by each
bidder submitting a bid.
      (6)   Extensions of the bid opening date may be permitted under the
following circumstances:
         (a)   Changes are made in specifications after advertisement;
         (b)   One (1) or more bidders notify the city of discrepancies,
errors, or areas requiring clarification in the specification;
         (c)   Specifications require design work on the part of the bidders,
and when unforeseen conditions make completion of bid preparation prior to the
bid deadline impossible;
         (d)   Strikes, disasters, or other uncontrollable factors prevent
bidders from acquiring information necessary for bid preparation; or
         (e)   Other reasons as may be determined by the city.
      (7)   An invitation for bids may be rescinded under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Conditions leading to issuance of an invitation for bids change
sufficiently to make the proposed purpose unnecessary;
         (b)   Funds for the proposed purchase become unavailable; or
         (c)   It becomes apparent that no bids will be received because the
item or service requested is currently unavailable; the bid price will
apparently exceed available funds; or major revisions in the specifications are
necessary to ensure that responsive and responsible bids are received.
   (B)   Specifications and standard specifications. As set forth in KRS
45A.415, the city shall use specifications which assure the maximum practicable
competition to meet the city’s needs. A specification which describes a product
which is proprietary to one (1) company may be used only when no other kind of
specification is reasonably available to describe requirements; and such
specification includes language which specifically permits an equivalent
product to be supplied. Such specification shall include a description of the
salient characteristics of the product.
      (1)   All specifications used in the procurement process shall be
designed to provide the maximum practicable competition consistent with the
level of quality required. All specifications shall be in a standard format
established by the city. Specifications shall be as open and accurate as
conditions permit. Any restrictive element shall require written justification
by the using agency. The appropriate type of specification, as described below,
shall be used for each purchase:
         (a)   Design specifications prescribe how an item is to be
manufactured or built. This type of specification is particularly suitable for
construction projects.
         (b)   Performance specifications describe the capabilities of the item
to be purchased. Criteria are developed to measure the ability of the item to
be purchased to perform or last.
         (c)   A combination of design and performance specifications may be
used when appropriate.
         (d)   Brand name or equivalent specifications may be used only when
other types of specifications are inappropriate or unavailable. If brand name
or equivalent specifications are used, the specification must specify more than
one (1) brand name if possible; specifically state that any equivalent product
may be supplied, with the burden of proof of equivalency being on the proposing
vendor; and must set forth all salient criteria to be met by all products
proposed.
      (2)   The city may, when appropriate for the anticipated procurement,
establish a qualified products list and may use this list in place of detailed
specifications.
         (a)   The city shall establish the criteria to be met by any product
proposed for inclusion on a qualified products list, and shall make those
criteria available to the public and to interested vendors.
         (b)   A bidder may, in response to an invitation for bids issued on
the basis of a qualified products list, propose to furnish a product not
included on the qualified products list if he demonstrates, prior to the award
of the contract and to the satisfaction of the city, that the product proposed
meets all criteria established for inclusion on the qualified products list.
   (C)   Use of forms. All bids shall be submitted on forms provided by the
city. Bids submitted on other forms may be rejected as nonresponsive. Bid form
shall not be altered in any manner. If there are acceptable exceptions, they
shall be listed and noted on a separate sheet and shall be attached to the bid
form. Each exception noted shall state the increase or decrease in the total
cost of the commodity or service to be furnished.
   (D)   Use of bid price or evaluated bid price. A bid shall be awarded to the
responsible bidder who submits the responsive bid for the lowest bid price or
lowest evaluated price.
      (1)   If the bid is to be awarded on the basis of lowest bid price, the
method of award shall be clearly stated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   If the bid is to be awarded on the basis of lowest evaluated bid
price, the evaluation criteria to be used, along with applicable formulas or
computation methods, shall be clearly stated in the invitation for bids.
   (E)   Withdrawal of bids. No bid, once submitted, may be withdrawn before
the time allowed for acceptance stated in the invitation for bids has elapsed
unless the following circumstances occur. Any bid withdrawal, except under the
following circumstances, shall require forfeiture of bid security.
      (1)   Bids have not been opened and a written request is received from a
bidder for withdrawal of his bid more than twenty-four (24) hours before the
date and time set for opening.
      (2)   An error has been made that is obvious on the face of the bid
(e.g., error in extensions, arithmetical errors, and the like).
      (3)   The bidder can demonstrate from worksheets or other documents that
an error has been made in preparation of the bid documents.
      (4)   Request for withdrawal of a bid is made in writing to the city
clearly stating the reason for the request for withdrawal.
   (F)   Waiver of requirements. The city may waive any informalities and may
establish conditions under which any incomplete bids may be considered if it is
determined that the waiver is in the best interests of the city.
   (G)   Opening time for bids.
      (1)   An opening time for each bid shall be stated in the advertisement
and invitation for bids.
      (2)   It shall be the bidder’s responsibility to assure that his bid is
in the office before the time set for receipt of bids.
      (3)   The city shall, at the time set for opening bids, publicly open all
bids submitted. If the structure of the invitation for bids permits, all bids
submitted shall be read aloud.
      (4)   Bids shall not be examined, inspected, or reviewed by persons
present at the opening until all bids have been opened.
      (5)   The city shall, with reasonable promptness, prepare a tabulation of
all bids received in response to an invitation for bids, together with the
names of the bidders. This information shall be made available to the public
upon reasonable request.
   (H)   Evaluation and awards.
      (1)   After the bids are opened, the city shall review all bids for
compliance with specifications, terms, and conditions.
      (2)   Every bidder, when requested by the city, shall clarify or explain
in writing, any matter contained in his bid which the city determines needs
clarification or explanation. The bid of any bidder who fails to provide this
written clarification or explanation of his bid when the clarification or
explanation is requested shall not be considered for award. The written
clarification or explanation of a bid shall be incorporated in and become part
of any contract awarded on the basis of that bid.
      (3)   Alternate bids will be considered for award only if the invitation
for bids specifically requests that alternates be submitted and establishes
conditions under which alternate bids shall be considered for award.
      (4)   After evaluation, a contract shall be awarded with reasonable
promptness to the responsive bidder whose bid (or alternate bid, if alternates
are requested in the invitation for bids) is either the lowest bid price or the
lowest evaluated bid price, as designated in the invitation for bids as the
basis for award of the contract.
      (5)   If the city determines, in writing, that no satisfactory bid has
been received, all bids may be rejected and new bids may be invited on the
basis of the same or revised specifications, or competitive negotiations may be
undertaken for the procurement. The basis for rejection of all bids and
subsequent action taken with respect to the invitation for bids shall be
recorded in writing and filed in the bid file relating to the particular
procurement. The city reserves the right to hold all bids for a period of
thirty (30) days.
   (I)   Rejection of bids. The city reserves the right to reject any and all
bids and to waive informalities and minor irregularities in the bids. Grounds
for rejection include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Failure of a bid to conform to the essential requirements of an
invitation for bids;
      (2)   Failure to conform to specifications contained in or referred to in
any invitation for bids unless the invitation authorized submission of
alternate bids and the alternate proposal meets the requirements specified in
the invitation for bids;
      (3)   Failure to conform to a delivery schedule established in the
invitation for bids;
      (4)   Imposition of conditions which would modify the terms and
conditions of the invitation for bids, or which would limit the bidder’s
liability to the city under terms of the contract awarded on the basis of the
invitation for bids;
      (5)   Failure of a bid to be reasonable in price;
      (6)   Failure of a bid to be responsible, as set forth in KRS 45A.395; or
      (7)   Failure to furnish a bid guarantee when the guarantee is required
by an invitation for bids.
   (J)   Bid conditions.
      (1)   The city may adapt and revise as necessary, general conditions for
bidding. The general conditions for bidding shall be applicable to, included
in, or incorporated by reference in all invitations for bids issued by the
city.
      (2)   The city may, as required by a particular procurement, develop and
adapt special bid conditions supplemental to the general bid conditions.
      (3)   Any bidder who submits a bid in response to an invitation for bids
shall be deemed to have agreed to comply with all terms, conditions, and
specifications of the invitation for bids.
      (4)   Where, after invitation for bid has been made in accordance with
KRS 45A.365 and no bids have been received from responsive and responsible
bidders, the city may proceed to acquire the supplies, services, or
construction by non-competitive negotiations in accordance with KRS 45A.380.
   (K)   Contract pricing. The following matters shall be applicable to all
invitations for bids issued, bids submitted, and contracts awarded for the
purchase of commodities, supplies, and equipment pursuant to KRS 45A.365 and
this regulation.
      (1)   Discounts shall not be considered unless stated in the invitation
for bids.
      (2)   In case of discrepancy in the extension of a price, the unit price
shall govern over the total price for all items.
      (3)   An award may be made to the lowest responsible aggregate bidder for
all items, groups of items, or on an individual item basis, whichever is deemed
to be in the best interest of the city. The methods and basis of evaluation of
bids and award of contract shall be stated in the invitation for bids.
   (L)   Cancellation. As set forth in KRS 45A.390, an invitation for bid or a
request for a proposal or other solicitation may be canceled, or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, if it is determined in writing that such action is
in the best interest of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Competitive sealed bidding, see KRS 45A.365
§ 23.105 COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS
   (A)   Competitive negotiations may be used for a procurement under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The particular procurement is of such a complex nature or includes
such technical detail that specifications cannot be fairly and objectively
prepared to permit competition by sealed bids.
      (2)   The particular procurement is for high technology equipment
available from a limited number of sources of supply and for which
specifications cannot practically be prepared except by reference to the
specifications of the equipment of a single source of supply.
      (3)   The city determines, in writing, that the conditions permitting
contracting by competitive negotiation pursuant to KRS 45A.370 and KRS 45A.375
exist.
   (B)   When the city determines, in writing, that competitive negotiation is
necessary to carry out a particular procurement, competitive negotiations shall
commence by advertisement of a request for written proposals as provided in KRS
45A.370. A request for proposals shall include the following:
      (1)   A request by the city for proposals pursuant to KRS 45A.370 and KRS
45A.375;
      (2)   A statement of the work required;
      (3)   Desired performance schedule;
      (4)   Available government-furnished property, if any;
      (5)   Applicable provisions to be included in the contract, if awarded;
      (6)   Criteria that will be used to evaluate proposals received;
      (7)   Where and how detailed specifications may be obtained; and
      (8)   Required time and place for submission of offers.
   (C)   All written proposals received by the city in response to a request
for proposals shall be kept secure and unopened until the date and time set for
opening.
      (1)   Proposals not clearly marked as such on the envelope in which the
proposal is submitted may be opened for identification purposes, appropriately
identified, and resealed until the time for opening proposals.
      (2)   Proposals shall be opened on the date and at the time set for
opening.
      (3)   Proposals for competitive negotiations shall not be subject to
public inspections until negotiations between the city and all offerors have
been concluded and a contract is awarded.
   (D)   The city shall examine the written proposals received for general
conformity with the advertised terms of the procurement.
      (1)   The city shall determine in writing, based on individual review,
those proposals received from responsible offerors that constitute a reasonable
basis for negotiation. Each offeror shall be contacted informally and a meeting
scheduled for discussion of the offeror’s proposals.
      (2)   Discussions need not be conducted under the circumstances of or
relative to the topics enumerated in KRS 45A.370(3)(a), (b), and (c).
      (3)   Discussions with offerors shall be held informally orally, in
writing, or both orally and in writing, as determined by the city to be most
advantageous to the city.
      (4)   If, after discussions with all responsible offerors have concluded,
it is determined that no acceptable proposal has been submitted, any or all
proposals may be rejected, and in the discretion of the city, new proposals may
be requested as provided in this article on the basis of the same or revised
terms, or the procurement may be abandoned.
   (E)   The city shall prepare a written summary of all oral discussions in
competitive negotiations setting forth the date or dates of discussions with
all responsible offerors and the general substance of the discussions. Verbatim
records of the discussion shall not be required.
Statutory reference:
   Competitive negotiations, see KRS 45A.370, 45A.375
§ 23.106 NON-COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS
   (A)   Non-competitive negotiations may be used only when written
determination is made that competition is not feasible and it is further
determined in writing by the city that any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   An emergency exists which will cause public harm as a result of the
delay in competitive procedure;
      (2)   There is a single source within a reasonable geographical area of
the product or service to be procured;
      (3)   The contract is for the services of a licensed professional, such
as an attorney, physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, certified public
accountant, registered nurse, or educational specialist; a technician such as a
plumber, electrician, carpenter, or mechanic; or an artist such as a sculptor,
aesthetic painter, or musician. However, this provision shall not apply to
architects or engineers providing construction management services rather than
professional architect or engineer services;
      (4)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items purchased on a
weekly or more frequent basis, such as fresh fruits, vegetables, fish, or meat;
      (5)   The contract is for replacement parts where the need cannot be
reasonably anticipated and stockpiling is not feasible;
      (6)   The contract is for proprietary items for resale;
      (7)   In school districts the contract relates to an enterprise in which
the buying or selling by students is a part of the educational experience;
      (8)   The contract or purchase is for expenditures made on authorized
trips outside of the boundaries of the city;
      (9)   The contract is for purchase of supplies which are sold at public
auction or by receiving sealed bids;
      (10)   The contract is for group life insurance, group health and
accident insurance, group professional liability insurance, workers’
compensation and unemployment insurance; or
      (11)   The contract is for a sale of supplies at reduced prices that will
afford a purchase at savings to the city.
   (B)   Non-competitive bidding may also be used when the goods or services
are in any of the following categories:
      (1)   Services or goods actually required during an emergency;
      (2)   Services provided by a public utility or pursuant to a franchise
awarded according to law;
      (3)   Goods, services, equipment, publications, subscriptions,
memberships, instructional materials, and works of art available from a single
source;
      (4)   Special supplies or equipment required for laboratory or
experimental studies;
      (5)   Services from non-profit agencies who provide the services for the
benefit of the citizens of the city; or
      (6)   Real property or interest in real property.
Statutory reference:
   Non-competitive negotiations, see KRS 45A.380
§ 23.107 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES
   (A)   The city shall determine the need for any item requested and whether
or not the contract is for less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and the
expenditure is provided for in the budget. Procurement requirements shall not
be parceled, split, divided, or purchased over a period of time in order to
meet the dollar limitations for small purchases. The city shall maintain
records of all small purchases.
   (B)   Small purchase procedures shall follow the outlined regulations as
established by the city from time to time.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to institute small purchase procedures, see KRS 45A.385
§ 23.108 MULTIPLE AND PARTIAL CONTRACTS
   (A)   Multiple contracts. Multiple contracts may be awarded on the basis of
a single invitation for bids or after competitive negotiations when it is
determined in writing by the city, in advance of the invitation for bids or the
advertisement and solicitation for proposals for competitive negotiations, that
the award of multiple contracts is in the best interest of the city, provided
its needs are met at a reasonable cost. A determination and notice to potential
offerors that multiple contracts may be awarded for any procurement shall not
preclude the award of a single contract for the procurement.
   (B)   Partial contracts. When it is determined after evaluation of
competitive bids or the close of competitive negotiations that acceptable bids
or offers have been received for only parts of the requirements of the
procurement, the following may occur:
      (1)   A contract may be awarded for the parts of the procurement for
which acceptable bids or offers have been received;
      (2)   All bids or offers may be rejected and a new invitation for bids or
request for proposals based on the same or revised terms, conditions, and
specifications may be issued; or
      (3)   All bids found unacceptable for parts of the procurement may be
rejected and an invitation for bids or request for proposals, based on the same
or revised terms, conditions, and specifications for the parts of the
procurement for which no acceptable bids were received may be issued.
§ 23.109 SURETIES AND BONDS; SUBMISSION OF COST OR PRICING DATA; INSPECTION OF
CONTRACTOR’S RECORDS AND PLACE OF BUSINESS
   (A)   Sureties and bonds.
      (1)   Bid bonds.
         (a)   Bidder security shall be required for all competitive sealed
bidding for construction contracts when the price is estimated by the city to
exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Bidder’s security shall be a
bond provided by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, or
the equivalent in cash, in a form satisfactory to the city. Nothing herein
prevents the requirement of such bonds on construction contracts under one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) when the circumstances warrant.
         (b)   Bidder’s security shall be in an amount equal to at least five
percent (5%) of the amount of the bid.
         (c)   When the invitation for bids requires that bidder security be
provided, noncompliance requires that the bid be rejected. However, the city
may set forth by regulation, exception to this requirement in the event of
substantial compliance.
         (d)   After the bids are opened, they shall be irrevocable for the
period specified in the invitation for bids. However, if a bidder is permitted
to withdraw his bid before award because of a mistake in the bid as allowed by
§
23.104(E), no action shall be had against the bidder or the bidder’s security.
(KRS 45A.430)
      (2)   Contract performance and payment bonds.
         (a)   When a construction contract is awarded in an amount in excess
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), the following bonds shall be
furnished to the city, and shall become binding on the parties upon the award
of the contract:
            1.   A performance bond satisfactory to the city executed by a
surety company authorized to do business in this state, or otherwise supplied,
satisfactory to the city, in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the contract price as it may be increased; and
            2.   A payment bond satisfactory to the city, executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in this state, or otherwise supplied,
satisfactory to the city, for the protection of all persons supplying labor and
material to the contractor or his subcontractors for the performance of the
work provided for in the contract. The bond shall be in an amount equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the original contract price.
         (b)   Nothing in this division shall be construed to limit the
authority of the city to require a performance bond or other security in
addition to those bonds, or in circumstances other than as specified in
division (2)(a) above, including, but not limited to, bonds for the payment of
taxes and unemployment insurance premiums.
(KRS 45A.435)
      (3)   Bond forms, filings, and copies.
         (a)   The city may promulgate by regulation the form of the bonds
required by divisions (A)(1) and (2) above, or it may adopt the form
established by the state under KRS 45A.175 to 45A.205.
         (b)   The city shall furnish a certified copy of a bond to any person
who requests such and pays the reasonable fee for such copy. The copy shall be
prima facie evidence of the contents, execution, and delivery of the original.
(KRS 45A.440)
   (B)   Cost or pricing data.
      (1)   A contractor shall submit cost or pricing data and shall certify
that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data
submitted was accurate, complete, and current as of a mutually determined
specified data prior to the date of:
         (a)   Pricing of any negotiated contract where the total contract
price is expected to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or such lesser
amount as may be prescribed by the city; or
         (b)   Pricing of any change order or contract modification which is
expected to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), or such lesser
amount as may be prescribed by the city.
      (2)   Any contract, change, or modification thereto under which a
certificate is required shall contain a provision that the price to the city,
including profit or fee, shall be adjusted to exclude any significant sums by
which the city finds that such price was increased because the contractor-
furnished cost or pricing data which, as of the date agreed upon between the
parties, was inaccurate, incomplete, or not current.
      (3)   The requirement of this division need not be applied to contracts
where the price negotiated is based on adequate price competition, established
catalogue or market prices of commercial items sold in substantial quantities
to the general public, prices set by law or regulation, or in exceptional cases
where it is determined in writing that the requirements of this division may
waived, and the reasons for such waiver are enumerated in the determination.
(KRS 45A.405)
   (C)   Inspection of contractor’s place of business; audit of records.
      (1)   The city may inspect the plant or place of business of a contractor
or any subcontractor under any contract awarded or to be awarded by the city.
      (2)   The city may audit the books and records of any person who has
submitted cost or pricing data under division (B) above, at any time until the
period of record retention as set forth in division (3) below has expired. The
right to audit hereunder shall only extend to those books and records
reasonably connected with cost or pricing data submitted under §
23.117 and such books and records shall be maintained by the contractor or
subcontractor for the period specified in division (3) below.
      (3)   The city shall be entitled to audit the books and records of a
contractor or any subcontractor under any negotiated contract or subcontract
other than a firm fixed-price type contract; however, this shall not limit the
right to audit as set forth in division (C)(2) above. Such books and records
shall be maintained by the contractor for a period of five (5) years from the
date of final payment under the prime contract any by the subcontractor for a
period of five (5) years from the date of final payment under the subcontract.
(KRS 45A.410)
§ 23.110 CONTRACT AWARDS NOT TO EXCEED APPROPRIATIONS
   (A)   No contract shall be awarded for an amount which exceeds the sum
budgeted and appropriated for the procurement by the legislative body of the
city. The city shall not award a contract for any procurement when the contract
price would exceed the funds appropriated for the procurement by the
legislative body.
   (B)   If all bids received in response to an invitation for bids exceed the
amount appropriated for the procurement and sufficient additional funds are not
authorized to permit an award to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder,
the city shall proceed with competitive negotiations in accordance with KRS
45A.375.
§ 23.111 FINAL PROCUREMENT DECISIONS TO BE IN WRITING
   As required in KRS 45A.355, every determination by an employee or official
of the city engaged in or responsible for the performance of any procurement
activity or function and constituting a final procurement action, or which is
required by KRS Chapter 45A or the provisions of this article, shall be made in
writing. Each determination shall be based on written findings that support the
determination and shall be signed by the employee making the determination.
§ 23.112 CONTRACT MODIFICATION, TERMINATION
   (A)   The city shall be authorized to provide, by appropriate clauses to
contracts for supplies or services of all types, for changes and modifications
to the contracts and providing for the method or methods of calculating the
costs of any decrease, increase, or other change in the contract price
resulting from the changes or modifications. The following provisions shall
apply to any changes:
      (1)   In contracts for the purchase of fixed amounts of commodities,
supplies, and equipment, increases in quantities in excess of ten percent (10%)
of the original quantity fixed by contract shall not be permitted unless the
invitation for bids or requests for proposals for competitive negotiation
informed prospective bidders or offerors that an increase in quantities might
be forthcoming.
      (2)   Increases in unit price shall not be permitted in contracts for
increased quantities, except as provided by a price escalation formula
authorized by the invitation for bids or requests for proposals for competitive
negotiations.
      (3)   All changes or modifications to contracts for the purchase of
commodities, supplies, equipment, and construction services shall be effected
by an advice of change order to the contract which shall be supported by a
written determination documenting the reason and basis for the change or
modification to the contract.
      (4)   A copy of the advice of change in order and the supporting
documentation relative to any change or modification to a contract shall be
filed and maintained in the contract file.
   (B)   Every contractor to whom a contract containing clauses authorizing
changes or modifications to the contract shall be deemed by acceptance of the
contract to have agreed to the changes or modifications of the contract as
provided herein.
   (C)   Any contractor who is determined, in writing, by the city to be in
breach of any of the terms and conditions of a contract may, in the discretion
of the city, be declared in default and the contract may be terminated for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to perform the contract according to its terms, conditions,
and specifications;
      (2)   Failure to make delivery within the time specified or according to
a delivery schedule fixed by the contract;
      (3)   Late payment or nonpayment of bills for labor, materials, supplies,
or equipment furnished in connection with a contract for construction services
as evidenced by a mechanic’s lien filed pursuant to the provisions of KRS
Chapter 376, or letter of indebtedness received from creditors; or
      (4)   Failure to diligently prosecute the work under a contract for
construction service.
   (D)   The city shall not be liable for any further payment to a contractor
under a contract terminated for the contractor’s default after the date of the
default, except for commodities, supplies, equipment, or services delivered and
accepted on or before the date of default and for which payment had not been
made as of that date. The contractor or his surety, if a performance bond or
payment bond has been required under the contract, shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city for all loss, cost, or damage sustained as a
result of the contractor’s default. A contractor’s surety’s liability shall not
exceed the final sum specified in the contractor’s bond.
   (E)   The city shall be authorized to terminate, for its own convenience,
all contracts for the procurement of supplies and services when the city
determines, in writing, that termination will be in the best interest of the
government, and according to the following provisions:
      (1)   When it has been determined that a contract should be terminated
for the convenience of the city, the city is authorized to negotiate a
settlement with the contractor according to terms deemed just and equitable.
      (2)   Compensation to a contractor for lost profits on a contract
terminated for convenience of the city shall not exceed an amount proportionate
to the sum that the contractor’s total expected margin of profit on the
contract bore to the contract price, based on the total out-of-pocket expense
incurred by the contractor as of the date of termination of the contract. The
contractor shall have the burden of establishing the amount of compensation to
which he believes himself to be entitled by the submission of complete and
accurate cost data employed in submitting his bid or proposal for the contract,
and evidence of expenses paid or incurred in performance of the contract from
the date of award through the date of termination.
§ 23.113 VERIFICATION AND PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
   (A)   Copies of records, specifications, procedures, and regulations
relating to purchasing shall be available to the public during normal business
hours, upon request, and at a cost not to exceed the cost of copying.
   (B)   The city may not disclose the following to the public or to a
prospective vendor’s competitors:
      (1)   Information furnished in response to a request by the city for
information necessary to determine a bidder’s responsibility, as provided in
KRS 45A.395.
      (2)   Information obtained from a prospective vendor during negotiations
which qualifies as confidential, technical information or trade secrets, or the
disclosure of which would violate patent rights or copyrights.
Cross reference:
   Maintenance of records by city, see §
24.102
§ 23.114 GRANT REQUIREMENTS
   Nothing in these regulations shall be construed in such a manner as to
relieve the city of the responsibility to comply with any procurement
requirements imposed by any agency from which the city may receive funds,
including, but not limited to, state or federal agencies.
§ 23.115 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
   The city shall include as part of any invitation for bids or request for
proposals for supplies, equipment, or services, equal employment opportunity
language as may be required by local ordinance, KRS 45.570 through 45.640, and
the procurement requirements of any agency from which the city may receive
funds.
§ 23.116 DETERMINATION OF PREVAILING WAGE FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 337, the city shall apply to the State Department of
Labor for a determination of the prevailing wage as required by law. This
information shall be included as part of any contract for construction services
where required by law, and shall be included where required by law in any
invitation for bids or request for proposals for any procurement of
construction services.
§ 23.117 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
   (A)   The city may enter into an agreement for cooperative purchasing with
any other local public agency. When the contracting local public agency
contracts for supplies, services, or construction pursuant to KRS 45A.365,
45A.370, 45A.375, or 45A.380, all other parties to the agreement shall be
deemed to have complied with the provisions of those sections.
   (B)   Nothing in KRS 45A.345 through 45A.990 shall deprive the city from
negotiating with vendors for supplies where the supplies are the subject of a
price agreement with the state. However, no contract executed under this
section would authorize a price higher than is contained in the price agreement
with the state for the specific supplies.
Statutory reference:
   Cooperative purchasing, see KRS 45A.420
§ 23.118 RECEIPT REQUIRED TO PROCESS INVOICE FOR PAYMENT
   No invoice for goods or services shall be processed for payment without
proof of receipt by the city of the goods or services, which shall be in the
form of written attestation by the receiving department head or other
authorized city official.
§ 23.119 SALE OF SURPLUS, PERSONAL PROPERTY BELONGING TO CITY
   (A)   The city may sell or otherwise dispose of any personal property which
is not needed or has become unsuitable for public use, or which would be
suitable, consistent with the public interest, for some other use. A written
determination as to the need or suitability of any personal property of the
city shall be made, and the determination shall fully describe the personal
property; its intended use at the time of acquisition; the reasons why it is in
the public interest to dispose of the item; and the method of disposition to be
used. Surplus or excess personal property as described in this section may be
transferred, with or without compensation, to another governmental agency, or
it may be sold at public auction or by sealed bids in accordance with KRS
45A.365, or it may be sold as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the event the city receives no bids for surplus or excess personal
property, either at public auction or by sealed bid, such property may be
disposed of in a manner consistent with the public interest, in any way deemed
appropriate by the city. In such instances, a written description of the
property, the method of disposal, and the amount of compensation, if any, shall
be made. Any compensation resulting from the disposal of surplus or excess
personal property shall be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(KRS 45A.455(4))
CHAPTER 24: PUBLIC RECORDS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
24.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II. PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
   
24.100   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
24.101   Referral to proper custodian
   
24.102   Public records not immediately available
   
24.103   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
24.104   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
24.105   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
24.106   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
24.107   Public records protected from disclosure
   
24.108   Rates for copies of city documents and records
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 24.001 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
program; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder, or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microfilm,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. public records, regardless of The
“OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city shall be the Mayor.
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, and municipal corporation; every city government agency,
including the policy-making board of an institution of education created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “PUBLIC
AGENCY”, as defined in this section; a member or employee of a “PUBLIC AGENCY”,
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council, or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “PUBLIC AGENCY” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each “PUBLIC AGENCY” is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870)
   “PUBLIC RECORDS.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, disks,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORDS” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1)(h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
24.107.
   “REASONABLE FEE” or “FEE”. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non-exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.” (a) An individual residing in the
Commonwealth; (b) A domestic business entity with a location in the
Commonwealth; (c) A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of
State; (d) An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth; (e) An individual or business entity that owns real
property within the Commonwealth; (f) Any individual or business entity that
has been authorized to act on behalf of an individual or business entity
defined in paragraphs (a) to (e) of this subsection; or (g) A news-gathering
organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a. to e.
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
examined from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s routines, and subroutines, such as translators and utility
programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited from
disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and an
outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
ARTICLE II. PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 24.100 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION
   (A)   As defined in §
24.001, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
24.107, any resident of the Commonwealth desiring to inspect or copy the public
records of the city shall make a request or complete a written application for
such records at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer during regular office
hours, except during legal holidays. The City Clerk/Treasurer may require the
applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the manner in
which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under the definition or
“RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH” in § 24.001.The written application shall be
hand-delivered, mailed, sent via facsimile to the City Clerk/Treasurer’s
office, or sent via e-mail to the City Clerk/Treasurer’s Office or his or her
designee at the e-mail address designated in the City Clerk/Treasurer’s rules
and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
(KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a resident of the Commonwealth’s
request is in compliance with the open records law and the requested records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer for the inspection. No resident of the Commonwealth shall
remove original copies of public records from the offices of any public agency
without the written permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   An resident of the Commonwealth may inspect public records during the
regular business hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public
records from the city through the mail. If the resident of the Commonwealth’s
requesting the public records requests that the records be mailed, the official
custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of all fees and the cost of
mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
24.001.
   (E)   Non-exempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copies in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8 ½ inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requester’s requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of non-exempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requester stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requester to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requester was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section; or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio, or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly
allowed the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of
its publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission
for that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic format, as provided
under this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 24.101 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
Cross reference:
   Board of Ethics to act as custodian of its records, §
26.203
§ 24.102 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records
not to exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 24.103 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of the public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 24.104 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify, in writing, the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response delaying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General’s opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institute proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
§ 24.105 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 24.106 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 24.107 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licensees necessary to do business or
to expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division
(A)(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination for employment, or academic examination
before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the office for Security Coordination
and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party.
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct.
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not distinctive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
24.103.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records of the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 24.108 RATES FOR COPIES OF CITY DOCUMENTS AND RECORDS
   (A)   Any documents or other records requested by the Mayor, council person
or other City Officer shall be provided at no cost.
   (B)   Any documents or other records requested by the general public shall
be provided at $0.10 per page. Copies of meeting agendas, notices and minutes
shall be provided a no cost.
   (C)   To the extent the City incurs additional costs in the fulfillment of
any such requests such costs may be passed through to the public in compliance
with KRS 61.874.
   (D)   To the extent any portion of this ordinance or other City ordinance,
policy or procedure shall be determined ambiguous, then said ordinance, policy
or procedure shall be interpreted in a manner which ensures full compliance the
Open Records Act, codified at KRS 61.870.
(Ord. 274-2019, passed 8-6-19)
CHAPTER 25: PUBLIC MEETINGS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
25.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
   
25.100   Meetings open to the public
   
25.101   Requirements for closed sessions
   
25.102   Public meeting schedules
   
25.103   Special meetings
   
25.104   Video teleconferences
   
25.105   Enforcement
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “ACTION TAKEN.” A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   “MEETING.” All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   “MEMBER.” A member of the governing body of a public agency. “MEMBER” does
not include employees of licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy- making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act in the legislative or executive
branch of government; any entity when the majority of its governing body is
appointed by a “PUBLIC AGENCY”, as defined by this section; a member or
employee of a “PUBLIC AGENCY”, a state or local officer, or any combination
thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating the
qualifications of public agency employees, established, created, or controlled
by a “PUBLIC AGENCY” as defined in this section; an interagency body of two (2)
or more public agencies where each “PUBLIC AGENCY” is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   “VIDEO TELECONFERENCE.” One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 25.100 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s, or student’s right to a public hearing
if requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency’s
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one (1) or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of
the members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the
purpose of avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall
be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussions between individual
members where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on
specific issues.
(KRS 61.810)
Cross reference:
   Council meetings, §
20.208 
   Board of Ethics meetings, §
26.400
§ 25.101 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
25.100(A)(1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provisions of §
25.100 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final matters may be discussed at a closed session other than
those publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
25.100(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 25.102 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 25.103 SPECIAL MEETINGS
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting, and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but not more often than once a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
Cross reference:
   Special Council meetings, §
20.208
§ 25.104 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as appropriate. In addition, the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify a primary location of the video teleconference
where all members can be seen and heard and the public may attend in accordance
with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 25.105 ENFORCEMENT
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 26: ETHICS CODE
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
26.001   Title
   
26.002   Findings
   
26.003   Purpose; authority
   
26.004   Definitions
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
   
26.100   Conflicts of interest in general
   
26.101   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
26.102   Receipt of gifts
   
26.103   Use of city property, equipment, personnel
   
26.104   Representation of interest before city government
   
26.105   Misuse of confidential information
   
26.106   Post-employment restriction
   
26.107   Honoraria
ARTICLE III. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
   
26.200   Who must file
   
26.201   When to file statements; amended statements
   
26.202   Form of statement of financial interests
   
26.203   Contents of financial interest statement
   
26.204   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
26.205   Noncompliance with filing requirement
ARTICLE IV. NEPOTISM
   
26.300   Nepotism prohibited
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT
   
26.400   Board of Ethics created
   
26.401   Alternate members
   
26.402   Facilities; staff
   
26.403   Powers; duties of board
   
26.404   Filing; investigation of complaints
   
26.405   Notice of hearing
   
26.406   Hearing procedure
   
26.407   Appeals
   
26.408   Limitations of actions
   
26.409   Advisory opinions
   
26.410   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
26.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 26.001 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Crittenden Code
of Ethics”.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.002 FINDINGS
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.003 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.004 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   “BOARD OF ETHICS.” The City of Crittenden Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city’s Code of Ethics.
   “BUSINESS.” Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   “CANDIDATE.” Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   “CITY.” The City of Crittenden, Kentucky.
   “CITY AGENCY.” Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   “EMPLOYEE.” Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides services to the city. The term
“EMPLOYEE” shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their
employees.
   “FAMILY MEMBER.” A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   “IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.” A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   “OFFICER.” Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one (1) of the following:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   A legislative body member;
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
   (D)   The City Manager;
   (E)   The City Administrator;
   (F)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
   (G)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city;
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 26.100 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in any business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
of this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
subsection (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
§ 26.101 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or through others, undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in
subsection (A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subpart (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
in any case where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinance, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.102 RECEIPT OF GIFTS
   No officer or employee of the city or any city shall directly, or
indirectly, through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), whether
in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing,
or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably
be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be
expected to influence, the officer or employee in the performance of his public
duties.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
§ 26.103 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, PERSONNEL
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
§ 26.104 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTs BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
an official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.105 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information in the course of his or her official duties, if the
primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her personal
financial interest or that of another person or business. Information shall be
deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.106 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one (1) year after the termination of the officer’s
or employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.107 HONORARIA
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in consideration of an appearance, speech, or article
unless the appearance, speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any
other person.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
ARTICLE III. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 26.200 WHO MUST FILE
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the city Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.201 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 5:00 p.m., February 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 5:00 p.m. on February 1 each year
provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.202 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, of the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first-class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.203 CONTENTS; FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information: for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the income
(e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or
more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) at fair market value or five percent (5%)
ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family during the preceding
calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family, or household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of business listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
§ 26.204 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five (5) years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by that person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Public records, see
Ch. 24
§ 26.205 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify, by certified mail, each person required to file a statement of
financial interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an
incomplete statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed
by the Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency,
shall establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied,
and shall advise the person of the penalties for violation.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
ARTICLE IV. NEPOTISM
§ 26.300 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
February 1, 1995.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT
§ 26.400 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within sixty (60) days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three (3) years; except that with respect to the members initially
appointed, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, two
(2) members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and two (2) members
shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be for a term of three (3) years. No more than three (3) of the members
shall be of the same political party. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall
have been a resident of the city for at least one (1) year prior to the date of
the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The
members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their knowledge and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government
affairs. The members may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from
the executive authority) for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under
this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before
the executive authority and the legislative body (if different from the
executive authority).
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within sixty (60)
days by the executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative
body (if different from the executive authority). If a vacancy is not filled by
the executive authority within sixty (60) days, the remaining members of the
Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three (3) or more members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of three (3) or more members shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself from voting
on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.401 ALTERNATE MEMBERS
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body (if different than the executive authority) may appoint two (2) alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his duties. An alternate member
shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year. Alternate members shall meet all
qualifications and be subject to all requirements of this chapter that apply to
regular members.
(Ord 9-1994, passed 10-11-94)
§ 26.402 FACILITIES; STAFF
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly, or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.403 POWERS; DUTIES OF BOARD
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive, and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business and that may be required by the executive authority or legislative
body of the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.404 FILING; INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten (10) working days to each officer
or employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; or
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.405 NOTICE OF HEARING
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.406 HEARING PROCEDURE
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within thirty (30) days after
completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its
findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.407 APPEALS
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action by the
Board of Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The
Board shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the
Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.408 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.409 ADVISORY OPINIONS
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before any advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion;
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Cross reference:
   Public records, see
Ch. 24
§ 26.410 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority to influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who, in good faith, reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive actions if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he discloses with reckless disregard for its
truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from the required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
Statutory reference:
   Open records and exceptions, KRS 61.884
Cross reference:
   Records protected from disclosure, §
24.107
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
26.205 pertaining to filing of statements of financial interests shall, in
addition to any other penalties set out in this chapter, be subject to the
following penalties:
      (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file a financial interests
statement or who fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing
identified in the notice under §
26.205 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of
Ethics in an amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day, up to a
maximum total civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any civil fine
imposed by the Board of Ethics under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (D)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter may be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by an other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 96-1994, passed 12-8-94)
CHAPTER 27: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
27.001   Personnel and pay classification plan adopted
   
27.002   Job classifications
   
27.003   Pay periods; rates of pay
   
27.004   Discharge of employees
§ 27.001 PERSONNEL AND PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN ADOPTED
   There is hereby established within the city the job classifications listed
in §
27.002. Personnel to fill such positions may be employed by the Mayor, (except
for non-elected officials) and persons so employed shall be paid compensation
at the rates specified in the compensation plan provided, however, that such
compensation shall not be less than the minimum nor more than the maximum
hereinafter set out for the positions.
(Ord. 1-82, passed 4-6-82)
§ 27.002 JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
 
Job Classification
City Clerk/Treasurer
Assistant City Clerk
Superintendent of Wastewater Plant
Maintenance Worker
 
(Ord. 1-82, passed 4-6-82)
§ 27.003 PAY PERIODS; RATES OF PAY
   (A)   The City Council by ordinance shall fix the salary of each employee
and will show the annual salary based on a fifty-two (52) week year, and will
further provide in the ordinance whether such employee is to be paid on a
weekly, monthly, or hourly basis, and the pay period of each officer or
employee.
   (B)   Part-time employees shall be paid within the hourly rates of the
position for which employed. The specific rate shall be fixed by ordinance of
City Council.
((Ord. 1-82, passed 4-6-82)
§ 27.004 DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
   Each employee hired pursuant to this chapter serves at the pleasure of the
Mayor and may be discharged at any time with or without notice and with or
without cause.
(Ord. 1-82, passed 4-6-82)
CHAPTER 28: TAXATION
Section
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
28.001   Adoption of property assessment
   
28.002   Tax levied
   
28.003   Due date; discount
ARTICLE II.   EMERGENCY SERVICE AMBULANCE DISTRICT
   
28.100      Establishment
   
28.101      Powers and duties of the Directors
 
   
28.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 28.001 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY ASSESSMENT
   The city does hereby adopt the property assessment made by the Grant County
Property Valuation Administrator, as the properly assessed valuation for all
property within the city whereon taxes shall be levied and paid each year, the
same to be established as of January 1, of that calendar year.
(Ord. 232-60, passed 11-4-60; Am. Ord. 9-1979, passed 11-6-79)
Cross reference:
   Taxation rates, see
Table 8
§ 28.002 TAX LEVIED
   There is hereby levied upon real and personal property located within the
corporate limits of the city, and all personal estate, except such tangible
personal property as has an actual, bona fide situs without the corporate
limits of the city, on the first day of January of each year, and all
corporations having their offices or places of business in the city, on the
date and all franchise of same, except those exempt from taxation by the
Constitution or laws of the State of Kentucky, and also all franchises of
corporations owned and exercised within the corporate limits of the city, that
have their chief places of business outside of the city.
(Ord. 9-1979, passed 11-6-79)
§ 28.003 DUE DATE; DISCOUNT
   (A)   All taxes levied pursuant to §
28.002 shall become due and payable on December 31 of the calendar year for
which they are assessed. Taxes which are not paid by March 1 of the following
year shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
28.999.
   (B)   There shall be allowed, as a credit, a two percent (2%) discount of
the face amount of any bill paid before November 15 of the year in which the
taxes are due.
(Ord. 9-1979, passed 11-6-79; Am. Ord. 5-83, passed 10-17-83; Am. Ord. 8-84,
passed 9-6-84; Am. Ord. 143-1999, passed 10-1-99)
ARTICLE II. EMERGENCY SERVICE AMBULANCE DISTRICT
§ 28.100 ESTABLISHMENT
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Crittenden hereby creates, pursuant to
KRS 108.105, an ambulance service district and an ambulance service tax of ten
cents ($0.10) per one hundred dollars ($100) of full assessed valuation upon
all property located within the city and subject to said tax.
   (B)   The ambulance service district shall be citywide, and the city tax
will be collected in the manner provided for in KRS 108.100(4) and shall be
used solely for maintenance and operation of a citywide ambulance service
district.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 108.110, the affairs of the ambulance service district
shall be operated by a Board of Directors, as set forth therein.
(Ord. 289-2021, passed 2-9-21)
§ 28.101 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTORS
   The Board of Directors shall provide ambulance service to inhabitants of the
city and shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Purchase ambulance vehicles and all other necessary equipment and
employ trained personnel which meet all federal and state requirements;
   (B)   Adopt rules and regulations necessary to effectively and efficiently
provide emergency ambulance services for the city;
   (C)   Employ person or persons to administer the daily operations of the
emergency ambulance service;
   (D)   Compensate employees of the district at a rate determined by the
Board;
   (E)   Apply for and receive available funds from the state and federal
government for the purpose of maintaining or improving emergency ambulance
services for the city;
   (F)   Acquire by bequests, gifts, grant or purchase the real or personal
property necessary to provide emergency ambulance services;
   (G)   Establish an equitable system of service charges to be collected from
the persons receiving emergency ambulance service from the city. The rate of
the service charge shall be fixed in such amounts as can be reasonably expected
to yield revenues not in excess of the costs of operation and maintenance of
the system and for adequate depreciation funds; and
   (H)   Contract with private persons, partnerships or corporations for
providing ambulance services to residents of the city as long as these services
utilize vehicles, equipment and personnel which conform to all requirements of
law.
(Ord. 289-2021, passed 2-9-21)
§ 28.999 PENALTY
   All taxes which are not paid pursuant to the provisions of §
28.003 shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the principal
amount of the tax together with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%)
per annum.
(Ord. 9-1979, passed 11-6-79)
CHAPTER 29: PUBLIC SAFETY
   The city hereby authorizes the execution of an inter-governmental agreement
with Grant County addressing the consolidation of law enforcement functions.
(Ord. 150-2000, passed 5-22-00)
Cross reference:
   
T.S.O. 5, Contracts and Agreements
TITLE 3: PUBLIC WORKS/UTILITIES
   
CHAPTER 30   WATER AND SEWERS
   
CHAPTER 31   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 30: WATER AND SEWERS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
30.001   Establishment
   
30.002   Definitions
   
30.003   Supervised, managed and controlled by the city
   
30.004   City permit required for use of service
   
30.005   Collection, disbursement of revenue for service
   
30.006   Protection from damages required
ARTICLE II. USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
   
30.010   Connection required
   
30.011   Unsanitary disposal prohibited
   
30.012   Private sewage disposal facilities regulated
   
30.013   Conformance with federal standards
   
30.014   Prohibited discharges generally
   
30.015   Discharge prohibited
ARTICLE III. PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
   
30.030   Public sewer not available
   
30.031   Connection to public sewer
ARTICLE IV. BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS
   
30.040   Permit required
   
30.041   Prohibited connections
   
30.042   Designs and installations
   
30.043   Inspection
   
30.044   State Code adopted
ARTICLE V. POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
   
30.060   General conditions
   
30.061   Restricted discharges
   
30.062   Authorization by city
   
30.063   Conformance with federal pretreatment standards
   
30.064   Discretionary action by Council
   
30.065   Interceptors
   
30.066   Maintenance of preliminary treatments facilities
   
30.067   Control manhole
   
30.068   Sampling discharge, measurement, tests, etc.
   
30.069   Special agreements authorized
ARTICLE VI. INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
   
30.080   Remittance by industries
   
30.081   Industries required to contribute
   
30.082   Time period for payments
   
30.083   Basis for payments
   
30.084   Monitoring of wastes
   
30.085   Collection
   
30.086   Penalty for nonpayment
   
30.087   Maintenance of funds
ARTICLE VII. RATES AND CHARGES
   
30.100   User fee schedule
   
30.101   Rate schedule
   
30.102   Establishment construed
   
30.103   City to establish rates applicable to each commercial establishment
   
30.104   City authorized to contract with acceptable agency
   
30.105   Billing for services; delinquency; discontinuation of service
   
30.106   Connection fees
   
30.107   Service extension costs
   
30.108   Accounting for and use of funds
   
30.109   Discharge of surface water into sanitary sewer system prohibited
notice to abate; charges
   
30.110   Dumping sewage into sanitary sewer system restricted; permit required
   
30.111   Discharge limit and surcharge
   
30.112   Tap-on-fees for multi-unit development
   
30.113   Security deposits; liens on property
   
30.114   Connection deposits
   
30.115   New service connections
   
30.116   Billing procedures
   
30.117   Nonpayment of bills and reconnection fees
ARTICLE VIII. POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
   
30.120   Inspections authorized
   
30.121   Observing of safety rules by city employees
   
30.122   Right of entry of city employees
   
30.999   Penalties
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the city a sewer system as a public
project pursuant to KRS Chapter 58.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, for any person to use the city sewer system in
any manner in connection with or for any property except in compliance with all
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD)." The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   "CITY." The City of Crittenden, Kentucky; its general manager or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   "GARBAGE." Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTE." The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or ground water.
   "N.P.D.E.S." National Pollution Discharge Elimination System administered by
the state and federal governments.
   "PERSON." Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
or group.
   "pH." The negative logarithm of the effective hydrogen ion concentration.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking or
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sanitary sewer which is controlled by public authority.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which is designed and constructed to carry
sanitary sewage.
   "SEWAGE." A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   "SEWER." Sanitary sewer.
   "SEWERAGE SYSTEM." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   "SHALL." Is mandatory; may is permissive.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or if quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty-four hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS." Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   "WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT." Any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
   "WATERCOURSE." A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.003 SUPERVISED, MANAGED AND CONTROLLED BY THE CITY
   The full and complete supervision, management and control of the sewer
system, including the collection, deposit and expenditures of all funds
constituting, directly or indirectly, income or revenues of the system and the
maintenance, operation and extension and improvement of said system, shall be
done by the city or an assigned agency.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.004 CITY PERMIT REQUIRED FOR THE USE OF SERVICE
   (A)   Use of or connection to the sewerage or storm sewer system of the city
without a permit or permission from the city is prohibited.
   (B)   There are three (3) classes of permits established:
      (1)   For residential sewers;
      (2)   For commercial sewers; and
      (3)   For industrial sewer connections.
   (C)   No permit will be issued by the city to connect to any sewer not
formally dedicated to and accepted for ownership, operation, and maintenance by
the city. The city reserves the right to block and stop sewage flows from
nondedicated sewerage systems.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.005 COLLECTION, DISBURSEMENT OF REVENUE FOR SERVICES.
   All charges for services rendered by said system shall be collected and
accounted for by the city in the manner and form required by law and ordinances
of the city and all disbursements on the account of the combined system shall
be paid out only upon approval of the city; provided, however, that all
supervision, management and control of the system shall be consistent with and
in accordance with any provisions of this chapter pursuant to which the city
has authorized and issued or may hereafter authorize and issue any bonds which
by their terms are payable from and secured by the income and revenues of the
sewer system.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.006 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGES REQUIRED.
   No person shall maliciously or willfully break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part
of the sewage works. No connections to the sewerage system shall be made
without the direct permission and supervision of the city or its authorized
representative.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE II. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 30.010 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one hundred (100)
feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.011 UNSANITARY DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful without exception to discharge into any natural
outlet or surface water drain within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with a duly issued permit.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.012 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES REGULATED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.013 CONFORMANCE WITH FEDERAL STANDARDS.
   Disposal into the sewer system of any pollutant by any person is unlawful
except in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Control Act, P.L. 92-500 enacted in 1972 and amended in 1977 (FWPCCA),
and anymore stringent state and local standards.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.014 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the health department. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer, or natural outlet providing
an N.P.D.E.S. permit has been issued from the Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.015 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes,
to injure or interfere with any waste water treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the waste treatment plant, such as but not limited to
cyanides in excess of 0.10 mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public
sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes, cinders
and sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rages, feathers, tar plastics,
wood, unground garbage, punch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (E)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, COD, etc.),
release in a discharge of such volume or strength as to cause interference in
the operation of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (F)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the waste
water treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such
quantities that the temperature at the treatment plant influent exceeds forty
(40) degrees Celsius (104 degrees F) unless the works can, in the judgment of
the general manager, accommodate such heat.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE III. PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 30.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be
connected to an interim private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of all state and/or federal regulations.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.031 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
30.010, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subsection and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE IV. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 30.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. Any owner of property
upon which the foregoing prohibited activities occur shall be in violation of
this subsection.
   (B)   There shall be three (3) classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential service; (2) for commercial service; (3) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In all cases, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The
permit application shall be supplement by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.041 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other resources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 1-22-87)
§ 30.042 DESIGNS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building owner shall be borne by the property owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building maybe extended to the rear building.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tests acceptable to the city, to meet
all requirements of this subsection. Tests and related costs shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and back filling the trench shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (G)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas tight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
city before installation.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.043 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the inspection of the city or its
representative.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.044 STATE CODE ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of establishing minimum rules and regulations applicable to
the practice or trade of plumbing, the city hereby adopts the most current
plumbing code of the Kentucky State Department of Health as a part of this
chapter by reference thereto.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE V. POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS.
§ 30.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, waste water treatment
process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can
otherwise endanger life, limb or public property; or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewer, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the waste water treatment process, capacity of the waste water
treatment plant, degree of treat ability of wastes in the waste water treatment
process, capacity of the waste water treatment plant, degree of treat ability
of wastes in the waste water treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having temperature higher than one hundred fifty
(150) degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32)
and one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit (0 and 65 degrees Celsius).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the general manager.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the waste water treatment works exceeds the limits
established by the city for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or other
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotypes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but not
limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions.)
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the waste water treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the waste water treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (K)   All sewage service customers are prohibited to discharge the following
above their indicated concentration:
 Average of Daily Values for 30 Consecutive Days Maximum for Any One Day (mg/1)
 Shall Not Exceed
                 Average of Daily Values for 30
                 Consecutive Days Shall Not     Maximum for Any One Day (mg/1)
                 Exceed
Cyanide          0.050 mg/1                     0.10 mg/1
Arsenic          2.0 mg/1                       4.0 mg/1
Cadmium          0.20 mg/1                      0.40 mg/1
Total Chromium   1.0 mg/1                       3.0 mg/1
Copper           0.50 mg/1                      1.0 mg/1
Lead             1.0 mg/1                       2.0 mg/1
Mercury          0.002 mg/1                     0.01 mg/1
Nickel           1.0 mg/1                       2.0 mg/1
Silver           0.50 mg/1                      1.0 mg/1
Zinc             2.5 mg/1                       5.0 mg/1
Total phosphorus 10,000 mg/1                    15.0 mg/1
Ammonia nitrogen 25,000 mg/1                    50.4 mg/1
Total nitrogen   40,000 mg/1                    75.0 mg/1
 
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.062 AUTHORIZATION BY CITY.
   All industrial waste dischargers to the sewer system shall require
authorization by the city. As a condition for this authorization, the
industries can be required to provide information describing waste water
constituents and characteristics, and type of activity involved.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.063 CONFORMANCE WITH FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   All major contributing industries (as defined in 40 CFR pretreatment
standards (40 CFR, part 403) and any other applicable requirements promulgated
by the EPA in accordance with section 307 of FWPCAA, or with any more stringent
pretreatment standards necessitated by local conditions.
(Ord, 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.064 DISCRETIONARY ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
30.015 and §
30.060 and which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect upon
the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this subsection. If the city permits the pretreatment and/or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the facilities and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the city, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.065 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. The property owner shall be responsible
for proper maintenance of such interceptors and shall, if requested by the
city, submit reports regarding maintenance frequency and methods.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.066 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.067 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole,
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.068 SAMPLING DISCHARGE; MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, ETC.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water and
wastes to which reference is made in this Section III shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the examination of
Water and Waste water, published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted method to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and
to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty-four-hour
composite of all out falls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab
sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended
solids analyses are obtained from twenty-four-hour composites of all out falls
whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.) The industry shall
bear all expenses for sampling and testing requirements deemed necessary by the
city.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.069 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   No statement contained in this subsection shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE VI. INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
§ 30.080 REMITTANCE BY INDUSTRIES.
   Industries shall remit to the city, in addition to the normal sewage service
charges, the industries, share based on strength and volume of its wastes, of
the federal grant funds applied to the construction of the wastewater treatment
facility and other grant applicable projects.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.081 INDUSTRIES REQUIRED TO CONTRIBUTE.
   Industries which are required to contribute in cost recovery of applicable
costs are categorized as those industries which discharge any wastes other than
normal domestic waste to the sewerage system.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.082 TIME PERIOD FOR PAYMENTS.
   Industries shall submit cost recovery payments annually for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) years.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.083 BASIS FOR PAYMENTS.
   Industrial cost recovery payments are based on the amount of federal grant
funds applicable to the design flow, BOD and suspended solids of the sewage
treatment facility. The design costs are divided by the thirty-year recovery
period to give the cost per year. These costs are divided by the design daily
flow, BOD and suspended solids to obtain a cost per unit of treatment. These
costs are then multiplied by an industry's average daily flow, BOD and
suspended solids for the year. The addition of the elements of cost constitute
the amount an industry pays for cost recovery for the applicable year.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.084 MONITORING OF WASTES.
   Industry will be responsible for monitoring its wastes (see §
30.068) and submitting monthly analyses to the city. Rates and industrial cost
recovery will be based on the industrial analyses. Samples will be taken by the
city, its representative or duly authorized employees of the city on an
irregular basis for the purposes of validating the results of industrial
samples. If an industry does not wish to monitor its wastes, rates and
industrial cost, recovery will be based on results obtained from samples taken
by the city plus a monitoring charge.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.085 COLLECTION.
   Industrial cost recovery payments, payable to the city shall be collected
semiannually. However, an industry may fulfill its costs recovery obligation by
making a lump sum payment for its entire share of project costs. An industry
would be required to make an additional payment over and above the lump sum
should the flow or strength of its waste increase.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.086 PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   In the case of nonpayment, an industry shall be subject to a penalty not to
exceed one percent (1%) per month until such payment is made.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.087 MAINTENANCE OF FUNDS.
   Industrial cost recovery funds collected by the city will be held in
federally insured, interest bearing accounts. Annually, the city will remit
fifty percent (50%) of the total amount collected to the U.S. Treasury. Forty
percent (40%) will be held for future grant applicable construction of sewage
facilities, and ten percent (10%) may be used as the utilities commission
wishes.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
ARTICLE VII. RATES AND CHARGES
§ 30.100 USER FEE SCHEDULE.
   Residential, commercial and those industrial customers not participating in
the industrial cost recovery program will have sewage service rates based on
water purchased from the city. Industries participating in industrial cost
recovery will be charged on metered waste flows.
Crittenden Sewer Services
User Fee Schedule
Crittenden Sewer Services
User Fee Schedule
Residential Rates:                
0 - 2000 Gal                     $13.00 Minimum bill
2000 - 5000 Gal                  $5.50 per 1000 Gal.
5000 and over                    $5.25 per 1000 Gal.
                                 
Commercial and Industrial Rates:  
0 – 2000 Gal.                  $30.00 Minimum bill
2000 - 5000                      $5.00 per 1000 Gal.
5000 – 10,000                  $3.00 per 1000 Gal.
10,000 and over                  $2.50 per 1000 Gal.
 
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87; Am. Ord. 51-1989, passed 2-16-89; Am. Ord. 163-
2001, passed 12-4-01)
§ 30.101 RATE SCHEDULES.
   The following schedules of monthly rates and charges for sewer services,
which shall be paid by the owner or occupant of each and every residential,
commercial, and industrial establishment or other property, building and
structure of any kind connected with and served by the combined and
consolidated system, are established:
   (A)   The rates and charges for sewer service within the city shall be
computed and based upon the quantity of water used as determined by water meter
readings.
   (B)   The rates and charges for sewer service outside the city limits shall
be computed and based upon the quantity of water used as determined by water
meter readings.
   (C)   Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the city that a substantial
quantity of water used by the owner or occupant served by the system does not
flow on a regular and continuing basis into the sanitary sewer system, the city
may, by order entered in its minutes, permit such owner or occupant to meter
the water not flowing into the sanitary sewer system and may exclude such
metered quantity of water in calculating the sanitary sewer service charge.
   (D)   Any customer requesting or receiving such exclusion from its sanitary
sewer charges shall provide authorized representatives of the city reasonable
access to such areas of the customer's premises as may be deemed necessary by
said representatives in order to ascertain that such water is in fact not
flowing into the sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   All meters installed pursuant hereto shall be supplied and installed
by the city or its assigned agency; provided, however that the customer shall
pay the city the cost of said meter and installation.
   (F)   Any customer receiving the hereinabove-mentioned exclusion shall pay a
monthly surcharge to defray the costs of reading additional meters, the amount
of which shall be based upon the time required to read such additional meter or
meters, and shall pay all other costs directly related to the providing of this
service.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.102 "ESTABLISHMENT" CONSTRUED.
   The word "establishment" as used in this subsection or any other section
establishing city utility rates and fees shall be construed as follows:
   (A)   As used with respect to residential establishments, the word
"establishment" shall mean a room or group of rooms arranged for the separate
living of one or more individuals or a family and equipped for housekeeping,
and each single-family residence, apartment, or mobile home shall constitute a
residential establishment for the purpose of billing for sewer services. The
definition of a residential establishment shall include churches and religious
structures.
   (B)   As used with respect to commercial establishments, except as provided
in (D) the word "establishment" shall mean each room or group of rooms
receiving water and sewer services and used for a separate commercial,
professional, educational governmental or other undertaking except residential
or industrial. Where a separate commercial undertaking is not the recipient of
separate water and sewer services as, for example, where more than one office
type operation is served by a common restroom or men's and women's restrooms,
each such restroom or set of restrooms, as the case may be, shall constitute a
commercial establishment for the purposes of billing for sewer services.
   (C)   As used with respect to industrial establishment, the word
"establishment" shall mean a separate facility used for the purpose of
manufacturing or processing goods.
   (D)   Special commercial establishments shall mean and include hotels,
motels, hospitals, nursing homes and educational buildings, whether publicly or
privately owned and whether operated for profit or not for profit.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87; Am. Ord. 37-1988, passed 8-9-88)
§ 30.103 CITY TO ESTABLISH RATES APPLICABLE TO EACH COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city shall, by ordinance placed on its minute books, establish the rate
classification of each affected business.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.104 CITY AUTHORIZED TO CONTRACT WITH ACCEPTABLE AGENCY.
   Until such time as the city maintains a waterworks facility, the city shall
be authorized to contract with any acceptable agency for the supply of water to
the sewer system.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.105 BILLING FOR SERVICES; DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   All monthly charges for sewer shall be met and shall be due when notice of
the amount due is mailed as prescribed by the order of the city. If not paid in
full within a fifteen (15) day period, such charges shall be deemed delinquent.
When any bill has remained delinquent for ten (10) days, all services shall be
discontinued until such time as all delinquent charges have been paid.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.106 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Inside the city. The following connection fees shall be charged for
all connections made to the sanitary sewer system within the city, and it shall
be the duty of the city to collect said fees:
      (1)   Commercial establishments. The connection fee for each commercial
establishment shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). After legal
notice of bids are published, any new building constructed for commercial
purposes shall have a connection fee of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
      (2)   Industrial establishment. The connection fee for any industrial
establishment shall be one-thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). After
legal notice of bids are published, any new building constructed for industrial
purposes shall have a connection fee of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00)
      (3)   Residential establishments. The connection fee for each residential
establishments are as follows:
 
         (a)   Single family residence and duplex  $1,000.00
         (b)   Apartment building (3 to 8 units) pe$2,000.00g
         (c)   Apartment building (9 to 16 units) p$2,500.00ng
         (d)   Apartment building (17 and above) pe$200.00
 
      (4)   Special commercial establishments. The connection fee for each
special commercial establishment shall be one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) per each room made available for
occupancy by customers of a hotel or motel or by patients of a hospital or
nursing home, or each room to be used as a classroom in an educational
building.
   (B)   At any time should a sewer service be disconnected or terminated
through fault of the user, to reestablish sewer service said user must pay to
the city a deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (C)   Any new users to any existing connections shall be required to pay a
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for sewer use.
   (D)   Owners of real property which has city sewer service are ultimately
responsible for all sewer use charges for said property.
   (E)   Definition of "living area". For purposes of this subsection "living
area" shall mean the sum of the areas of the several floors of the building,
including mezzanine and intermediate floor tiers, measured from exterior faces
of exterior walls. This specifically excludes basements, attics, breezeways,
carports, attached garages, detached garages, and storage areas outside of the
exterior walls.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87; Am. Ord. 37-1988, passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 81-
1993, passed 4- 6-83; Am. Ord. 92-1994, passed 7-19-94; Am. Ord. 133-1999,
passed 2-9-99)
§ 30.107 SERVICE EXTENSION COSTS.
   The fees prescribed in §
30.107 are not for the purpose of defraying the costs of extension of sewer
service but for the purpose of making central collection and treatment plant
facilities available. When sewer service extensions are constructed by
developers and dedicated to the city, the connection fees provided herein shall
constitute the total sewer connections fee assessed by the city. When it is
necessary for the city to provide for the construction of extensions of sewer
service, then the cost of such construction shall be prorated among the
benefited properties.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.108 ACCOUNTING FOR AND USE OF FUNDS.
   The city shall receive and account for all connection charges collected
under provisions of §
30.107, as provided by law for public funds, keep same in a separate bank
account independent of any funds, keep same in a separate bank account
independent of any fund or account required by revenue bond ordinances, and may
use such funds to build extensions and improvements to sewer lines, plants and
equipment, and to purchase lands, fixtures, vehicles and machinery needed to
operate the city and to call all or part of outstanding utilities revenue bonds
of the city, for the purchasing of any such bonds offered for sale on the open
market.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.109 DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
NOTICE TO ABATE; CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be no discharge of surface water into the sanitary sewer
system from any property in the city.
   (B)   When it is has been established that surface water is being discharged
into the sanitary sewer system of the city, the city shall cause to be served
upon the owner or occupant of the property where such discharge is found to
exist a written notice requiring such person to abate the discharge within
sixty (60) days after service of the notice.
   (C)   Upon failure of the person notified as provided in (B) to abate a
discharge of surface water into the sanitary sewer of the city, the city shall,
on all billings made to the property involved after the sixty day period has
expired, add ten dollars ($10.00) per month until notified that the discharge
of surface water has been eliminated. The said supplementary charge shall be
assessed against the receiver of the service, whether an occupant or an owner.
   (D)   The supplementary charge made under provisions of (C) shall be for the
additional service required by the discharge of surface water into the sanitary
sewer system and for the problems and damage created by overloading the sewer
treatment plant and is therefore in addition to any fines or other penalties
otherwise provided by any provisions of this code, other ordinances of the city
or by state law.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.110 DUMPING SEWAGE INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM-RESTRICTED; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump sewage into any manhole
connected with the city sanitary sewer system except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No person shall deposit or dump any sewage from a vehicle or other
container into the city sanitary sewer system without first securing from the
city a permit for the dumping of sewage and complying with the other
requirements hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Each permit under provisions of (B) shall be issued only upon payment
of a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall entitle the holder thereof to dump
one load of sewage into said system.
      (1)   Dumping of sewage from a vehicle or container shall be made only
into the manholes designated by the city.
      (2)   Such dumping of sewage shall be permitted only between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Mondays through Fridays.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.111 DISCHARGE LIMIT AND SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge will be levied on any customer discharging above two hundred
fifty (250) mg/l BOD (5) and suspended solids. The charge will be two (2) cents
per pound BOD (5) and one (1) cent per pound of suspended solids.
§ 30.112 TAP-ON FEES FOR MULTI-UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   For all multi-unit developments, defined for the purpose of this
subsection is mobile home parks and apartment complexes but not apartments as a
part of a commercial establishment, which meets the following requirements,
outlined below, there shall be a singular tap-on fee in the amount of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) to cover the entire multi-unit development:
      (1)   The facility is functioning and fully operational;
      (2)   The multi-unit development is entirely residential in use;
      (3)   All units considered are currently tied to common sewage collection
lines leading to a sewer treatment system, that currently meets the minimum
requirements with the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Natural Resources
for health and safety;
      (4)   All units which are currently tied to common sewage collection
lines leading to a sewer treatment system must not have a ground water
infiltration rate average of more than 1,500 gallons per 24-hour period per
mile of sewer without regard to diameter of sewer as determined by the project
engineers, Chrisman, Miller, Woodford, Inc. The burden of having the sewage
collection lines and sewer treatment system tested is upon the owner of the
system.
      (5)   All sewer lines and connections are approved by the city. If
approved:
         (a)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the maintenance and
upkeep of their sewage collection lines and connections;
         (b)   The city shall maintain regular inspections of these sewage
collection lines and connections approved under the terms of this subsection;
         (c)   The owners of the sewage collection lines and connections shall
maintain the same or better infiltration rates for their systems as the ratio
determined in (4). Should the owner of said system fail to maintain this rate,
proper notice from the city shall be given to comply, and thereafter, upon non-
compliance said owner shall be subject to disconnection.
   (B)   The full tap-on fee will apply when any or all of the above stated
conditions are not fully met, as judged by the City Council.
(Ord. 29-1988, passed 3-1-88)
§ 30.113 SECURITY DEPOSITS; LIENS ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   All sewer charges for services rendered in the city to consumers on or
after Dec. 4, 1990 shall constitute a lien on said parcel of real estate to
which said service is rendered. If the person or other entity receiving such
services is not the owner of such property, the owner of such property shall be
obligated to pay any such charges not paid by the occupant of such property
unless the owner, prior to the time such service is rendered, shall file with
the City Clerk/Treasurer a written notice that the owner will not be liable for
such charges. Upon receipt of such notice the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify
in writing the occupancy of such property that unless a security deposit, equal
to one half (1/2) times the estimated monthly sewer charge for said property is
deposited with the City Clerk/Treasurer within ten (10) days, said non-
compliance shall be regarded as a default in the contract with the city for
said services, and after proper notice, and proper hearings, service may be
terminated.
   (B)   If such deposit is not made within ten (10) days after the mailing of
such notice to the address of service, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause the
appropriate employees of the city to serve notice to the consumer of the non-
compliance and notify the consumer of a proposed termination of the services
and a proposed hearing date in which the non-compliance will be discussed and a
decision will be made concerning termination of services. Should a termination
be decided upon after compliance of full due process rights of the consumer,
the sewer services to the consumer will be terminated and no such service shall
be restored until the deposit is made or the owners notice mentioned above is
withdrawn.
(Ord. 67-1990, passed 12-4-90)
§ 30.114 CONNECTION DEPOSITS.
   Prior to the connection of new service or reconnection of old service there
shall be a deposit for sewer service as follows:
   (A)   Sewer connection or reconnection deposit shall be one hundred dollars
($100).
   (B)   Said deposit shall be payable to the city prior to the initiation of
service; no partial payments on said deposit will be accepted.
   (C)   Businesses shall pay a minimum deposit of fifty ($50.00) for sewer
service. The actual deposit to be paid by all businesses will be determined by
the city from a calculation of water and/or sewer for an average three (3)
month period. If the actual deposit is lower than the minimum fifty dollars
($50.00) deposit, each business will pay the larger amount.
   (D)   If the account has been faithfully paid, with no delinquencies
requiring a water termination notice to be sent, the deposit shall be refunded
in full to the person listed on the account at the end of one year. Said person
shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer or Assistant City Clerk with proof of
payment, their receipt or canceled check, prior to the refund.
   (E)   In the event a default occurs the deposit shall be applied toward any
outstanding delinquent account and/or any services to be paid for by the city.
Any outstanding amount left after those payments are made shall be refunded to
the person applying the deposit.
(Ord. 68-1990, passed 12-4-90)
§ 30.115 NEW SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   New service connections shall be regulated as follows:
   (A)   The owner of the premises being serviced shall be responsible for
payment of any and all water and/or sewer.
   (B)   The account may be listed in the name of the owner of said property or
if leased, said account may be listed in the leasees name. No other person
shall be listed on a water or sewer service account.
   (C)   No new service shall be allowed to any person until all delinquent
accounts on the piece of property being serviced have been paid in full to the
city.
   (D)   No new service shall be supplied to any person until a deposit is paid
in full.
   (E)   No new service shall be connected for any person to any property
unless the building so serviced has a turn-off valve for water located inside
the building or premises.
(Ord. 68-1990, passed 12-4-90)
§ 30.116 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   Billing for water and/or sewer services shall be conducted as follows:
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for bills being sent to
all customers.
   (B)   All bills are due and payable by the 20th day of each month.
   (C)   The owners of the property being serviced shall be responsible for
payment.
   (D)   Anyone who does not receive a bill for services rendered by the city
for water and sewer shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer that no bill was
received and thereafter the City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a new bill to the
customer.
   (E)   Payments shall be made in full by cash, check, certified check or
money order. Partial payments of said accounts will be accepted by the city but
said partial payment shall be considered a default by the customer.
(Ord. 68-1990, passed 12-4-90)
§ 30.117 NONPAYMENT OF BILLS AND RECONNECTION FEES.
   Nonpayment of bills and reconnection fees shall be handled as follows:
   (A)   Customers who do not pay their bills when due or within fifteen (15)
days after the due date shall be considered in default.
   (B)   Upon a default by a customer, a letter shall be sent to the customer
by regular mail notifying them of the default and advising them that upon
nonpayment, water and/or sewer service shall be terminated.
   (C)   In the event there is no payment of the delinquent account for ten
(10) days, the water and/or sewer service shall be terminated the next working
day.
   (D)   All checks returned for no account or insufficient funds will be held
at the city building for ten (10) days. The city shall send a letter to the
customer who has a check returned upon receipt of the check. The customer shall
have ten (10) days from the date of the letter to bring in cash, certified
check, or money order and pick up the check. There shall be a twenty dollar
($20.00) charge by the city for all checks received in this manner. In the
event the customer does not pick up the check within ten (10) days from the
date of the letter, the water service to that customer shall be disconnected
with no further notice.
   (E)   In the event an account remains delinquent for a period of thirty (30)
days after the water and/or sewer service is terminated, the city shall have a
lien on said property and thereafter may use any and all legal methods to
collect said debt owned for nonpayment of water and/or sewer charges.
   (F)   There shall be a reconnection fee for those customers having their
water shut off for a delinquent bill, assessed by the city for thirty-five
dollars ($35.00) is payable to the city in advance.
   (G)   No person shall be reconnected to any existing sewer or water lines in
the city if they have any delinquent accounts in their name.
   (H)   There shall be no reconnection unless all deposits are made prior to
said reconnection.
   (I)   There shall be no reconnection if the property requested to be
reconnected is the subject of delinquent accounts. Upon payment of that
delinquent account on the property requested to be reconnected, said
reconnection will occur.
(Ord. 68-1990, passed 12-4-90)
ARTICLE VIII. POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 30.120 INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties at
reasonable times for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. The
city or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.121 OBSERVING OF SAFETY RULES BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
section 25-106, the city or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the property owner.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.122 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through and on which the city owns, maintains and operates sewerage
facilities for the purpose of but not limited to inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said property. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said property shall be done in a reasonable manner; and any damage shall be
restored to as near the original condition as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 25-1987, passed 9-22-87)
§ 30.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall be convicted of violating §
30.006 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expenses, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
   (D)   Any violation of this chapter may result in termination of disposal
authorization and water service.
(Ord. 26-1987, passed 9-22-87; Am. Ord. 66-1990, passed 9-3-91)
CHAPTER 31: GARBAGE
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.001   Maintenance of garbage dumpsters
   
31.002   Location of garbage collection areas
ARTICLE II. RATES AND CHARGES
   
31.100   Rates
   
31.101   Billing
 
   
31.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 MAINTENANCE OF GARBAGE DUMPSTERS
   (A)   All residential developments with four (4) or more units, commercial,
and industrial developments shall have a designated garbage containment area.
All garbage containment devices, including but not limited to dumpsters,
garbage or trash containers, recycling bins, compactors, oil receptacles, and
grease traps, shall be located within such garbage containment area behind the
front building line and enclosed. If the topography or other conditions will
not allow the containment area to be located behind the front building line,
the Mayor or his or her designee shall designate the location for the
containment area. The type of enclosure shall be a wooden fence, concrete
masonry units, brick, or other impenetrable material as approved by the Mayor
or his or her designee. Garbage containment areas shall meet the following
applicable standards as a minimum:
      (1)   Garbage containment areas shall be surrounded by an enclosure as
set forth above;
      (2)   Such enclosure shall have a minimum height of six (6) feet or equal
to the garbage containment device with the highest measurement if taller than
six (6) feet, shall be compatible with the design and color of the principle
building, and shall be kept free of advertising;
      (3)   All garbage containment devices shall be placed on a concrete pad
inside the containment area large enough to provide adequate support and allow
for positive drainage;
      (4)   Garbage containment areas shall not be located on any required
parking spaces;
      (5)   Garbage containment areas may be located within a rear yard but
shall not be located any closer than five (5) feet to a lot line. Said areas
shall not be located within are required buffer.
   (B)   All existing garbage containment areas in place prior to the enactment
of this section shall meet the above restrictions on or before July 1, 2008.
(Ord. 126-1998, passed 5-5-98; Am. Ord. 197-2007, passed 1-8-08)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
31.999
§ 31.002 LOCATION OF GARBAGE COLLECTION AREAS
   All garbage collection areas shall be located in the rear yard with a
minimum setback of two (2) feet from any property line unless site limitations
such as topography, yard area, or access prevents such placement as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 126-1998, passed 5-5-98)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
31.999
ARTICLE II. RATES AND CHARGES
§ 31.100 RATES
   The rate to be charged each solid waste customer within the city, effective
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024 shall be $13.60 per month and for the period
July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2024 shall be $14.17 per month, per household.
(Ord. 147-2000, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. 187-2005, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 240-
2015, passed 8-4-15; Am. Ord. 292-2021, passed 1-14-21; Am. Ord. 314-2023,
passed 1-25-23)
§ 31.101 BILLING
   Billing for the removal of residential solid waste shall be accomplished by
placing the same upon the bill rendered each household for wastewater
treatment.
(Ord. 147-2000, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. 187-2005, passed 5-3-05)
Cross reference:
   Water and sewer, billing, see §§
30.100 – 30.119
§ 31.999 PENALTY
   Any person or entity who violates the provisions of §§
31.001 or
31.002 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Each day the violation continues to exist shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 126-1998, passed 5-5-98)
TITLE 4: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 40   MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATION
   
CHAPTER 41   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 40: MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATION
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
40.001   Definitions
   
40.002   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
40.003   Adoption of state law
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
   
40.025   Police department and fire department authority
   
40.026   Accident investigations, studies, and reports
   
40.027   Records of traffic violations; driver’s files
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
   
40.050   Establishment; maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
40.051   Obedience to signals required
   
40.052   Exemptions
   
40.053   Unauthorized signs; signals
   
40.054   Signal legends
   
40.055   Crosswalks, safety zones, traffic lanes
ARTICLE IV. TRAFFIC RULES
Division 1. Operation Generally
   
40.100   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
40.101   Driving through safety zones prohibited
   
40.102   Approach of emergency vehicles
Division 2. Accidents; Violations
   
40.150   Duty of operator
   
40.151   Accident report
ARTICLE V. SPEED REGULATIONS
   
40.200   Definitions
   
40.201   Residential Street Speed Limits
ARTICLE VI. STOP REGULATIONS
   
40.250   Stop signs; obedience required
ARTICLE VII. PARKING SCHEDULES
   
40.300   Designated parking areas
ARTICLE VIII. FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
   
40.400   Driving in funeral processions
ARTICLE IX. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES
   
40.600   Official signs required
   
40.601   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
ARTICLE X. TRUCKS; SEMI-TRAILERS
   
40.700   Weight restrictions
   
40.701   Permit
   
40.702   Issuance of permit
   
40.703   Posting of signs
 
   
40.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   “ALLEY.” A narrow roadway between city blocks.
   “AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.” Any vehicle used for emergency purposes by a
fire department; any vehicle used for emergency purposes by the State Police, a
public police department, or sheriff’s office; any vehicle used for emergency
purposes by a rescue squad; any publicly owned vehicle used for emergency
purposes by a civil defense agency; ambulances; any vehicle commandeered by a
police officer; or any motor vehicle used by a volunteer fireman while
responding to an emergency.
(KRS 189.910)
   “BICYCLE.” Every device propelled by human power on which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twenty (20) inches
in diameter, and including any device generally recognized as a bicycle though
equipped with two (2) front or two (2) rear wheels.
   “CROSSWALK.”
   (A)   That part of a roadway at an intersection within the connections of
the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured
from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of the traversable
roadway.
   (B)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(KRS 189.010)
   “CURB LOADING ZONE.” A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading and unloading of passengers or materials.
   “DRIVER” or “OPERATOR.” The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(KRS 189.010)
   “FUNERAL PROCESSION.” Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   “HIGHWAY.” The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   “INTERSECTION.”
   (A)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
highways which join one another, but do not necessarily continue, at
approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling on
different highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   (B)   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
the intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of the highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection. The junction of a private alley with a
public street or highway shall not constitute an “INTERSECTION”.
   “MOTORCYCLE.” Any motor driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use
of the operator and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in
contact with the ground, but excluding tractors and vehicles on which the
operator and passengers ride in an enclosed cab and excluding mopeds as defined
in KRS 189.285.
(KRS 189.285)
   “OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.” All signs, signals, markings, and devices
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or dividing traffic.
(KRS 189.337)
   “PARK.” When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading.
   “PEDESTRIAN.” Any person afoot.
(KRS 189.010)
   “POLICE OFFICER.” Every officer of the Grant County Sheriff's office or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   “PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY.” Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.” Public utility repair vehicle; wreckers; state,
county, or municipal service vehicles and equipment; highway equipment which
performs work that requires stopping and standing or moving at slow speeds
within the traveled portions of highways; and vehicles which are escorting
wide-load or slow-moving trailers or trucks.
(KRS 189.910)
   “RAILROAD.” A carrier of persons or property on cars, other than street
cars, operated on stationary rails.
   “RAILROAD TRAIN.” A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated on rails, except street cars.
   “RESIDENCE DISTRICT.” The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on the highway for a
distance of three hundred (300) feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(KRS 189.390)
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” The right of one (1) vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a
lawful manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under
such circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger
of collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
(KRS 189.010)
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term “ROADWAY” as used herein
shall refer to any roadway separately but not to all roadways collectively.
(KRS 189.010)
   “SAFETY ZONE.” The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(KRS 189.010)
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   “STOP.” When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   “STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING.” When prohibited, means any stopping or
standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   “THROUGH HIGHWAY.” Every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this act.
   “TRAFFIC.” Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars, and
other conveyance either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   “TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.” Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Includes all vehicles as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles
propelled by muscular power; and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 40.002 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this
chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted by ordinance
or state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal on a roadway
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no
application.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.003 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW
   Those Kentucky Revised Statutes germane and applicable to vehicular traffic
and the operation of vehicles and the use of streets, roadways, and highways by
pedestrians are hereby adopted and shall be duly enforced by the city.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 40.025 POLICE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Grant County Sheriff's
office or any officers as are assigned by the Sheriff to enforce all street
traffic laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in this city.
   (B)   Officers of the Grant County Sheriff's office or any officers as are
assigned by the Sheriff are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Grant County Sheriff's office may direct traffic as conditions may
require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Personnel of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the Grant County Sheriff's office in directing traffic thereat
or in the immediate vicinity.
§ 40.026 ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS, STUDIES, AND REPORTS
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Grant County Sheriff's
office to investigate traffic accidents, and to arrest and assist in the
prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accident.
   (B)   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous,
officers of the Grant County Sheriff's office shall conduct studies of
accidents and determine remedial measures.
   (C)   A suitable system of filing traffic accident reports shall be
maintained. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. The reports shall be available for the use and
information of the city. The Grant County Sheriff's office shall receive and
properly file all accident reports made to it under state law or under any
ordinance of this city, but all such accident reports made by drivers shall be
for the confidential use of the Grant County Sheriff's office. No such report
shall be admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding other than on request
of any person asking for the report or on request of the court having
jurisdiction to prove a compliance with the laws requiring the making of all
such reports.
§ 40.027 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; DRIVER’S FILES
   (A)   The Grant County Sheriff's office shall keep a record of all
violations of the traffic ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle laws
of which any person has been charged, together with a record of the final
disposition of all such alleged offenses. This record shall be so maintained so
as to show all types of violations and the total of each. The record shall
accumulate during at least a five (5) year period and from that time on, the
record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent five (5) year
period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notice of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 40.050 ESTABLISHMENT; MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the Department of Transportation and Bureau of
Highways. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control
devices.
§ 40.051 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS REQUIRED
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle as specified
in §
40.052.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.052 EXEMPTIONS
   (A)   The speed limitations set forth in this chapter do not apply to the
following, when the driver thereof is giving the warning required by division
(E) below. No portion of this section shall be construed to relieve the driver
of the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
      (1)   Emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls;
      (2)   Police vehicles when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law;
      (3)   Ambulances when transporting a patient to medical care facilities.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call, or of a police vehicle in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or of an ambulance transporting a patient to a medical care facility
and giving the warning required by division (E) of this section, upon
approaching any red light or stop signal or any stop sign shall slow down as
necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed past the red light or stop
sign with due regard for the safety of persons using the street or highway.
   (C)   The driver of an emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call, or of a police vehicle in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or of an ambulance transporting a patient to a medical care facility
and giving warning required by division (E) of this section, may drive on the
left side of any highway or on the opposite direction of a one-way street
provided the normal lanes of traffic are blocked and he or she does so with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
   (D)   The driver of any emergency or public safety vehicle may stop or park
his vehicle on any street or highway without regard to the provisions of KRS
189.390 and 189.450 provided that, during the time the vehicle is parked at the
scene of an emergency, at least one (1) warning light is in operation at all
times.
   (E)   The driver of an emergency vehicle desiring the use of any option
granted by divisions (A), (B), or (C) of this section shall give warning in the
following manner: by illuminating the vehicle’s warning lights continuously
during the period of the emergency; and by continuous sounding of the vehicle’s
siren, bell, or exhaust whistle; unless the vehicle is an ambulance and the
driver is of the opinion that sounding of the siren, bell, or exhaust whistle
would be detrimental to the victim’s health. In the event the driver of an
ambulance elects not to use the siren, bell, or exhaust whistle, he shall not
proceed past red lights or drive in the opposite direction on a one-way street
or in on-coming lanes of traffic unless no other vehicles are within five
hundred (500) feet of the front of the ambulance. The driver shall not
extinguish the warning lights during the period of the emergency.
   (F)   No driver or operator of any emergency or public safety or other
vehicle shall use the warning lights or siren, bell, or exhaust whistle of his
or her vehicle for any purpose or under any circumstances other than those
permitted by KRS 189.910 to 189.950.
   (G)   This section does not relieve the driver of any emergency or public
safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (H)   The driver of a public safety vehicle which also meets the definition
of a slow- moving vehicle under KRS 189.810 and any vehicle acting as an escort
for the slow-moving vehicle may travel at a speed that may impede or block the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic if:
      (1)   The vehicle is being operated in an official capacity;
      (2)   Operation of the vehicle is in compliance with all state and local
government policies; and
      (3)   It is necessary for the safe operation of the vehicle.
(KRS 189.940)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.053 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS; SIGNALS
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display on or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or
maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic
sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be
deemed to prohibit the erection on private property adjacent to highways of
signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be
mistaken for official signs.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the sign or cause it to be removed without notice.
Cross reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 50
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.054 SIGNAL LEGENDS
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one (1) at a
time or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used,
except for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend or symbol message,
and said lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians
as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or any other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Vehicular traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-controlled signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
      (4)   Vehicular traffic that entered an intersection on a circular green
or yellow indication is allowed to complete a left turn during the red
indication.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian-controlled signal, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular red signal alone shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until a green indication is shown except
as follows:
         (a)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as required by division
(C)(1) above with the intention of making a right turn, may make the right
turn, after stopping, unless an official sign has been erected prohibiting such
movement, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic
lawfully proceeding through the intersection.
         (b)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as required by division
(C)(1) above whose vehicle is in the left lane of a one-way highway with the
intention of making a left turn onto the left lane of another one-way highway
with the flow of traffic, may make the left turn, after stopping, unless an
official sign has been erected prohibiting such movement, but shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic lawfully proceeding through the
intersection.
         (c)   In instances where there are two right or left turn lanes, an
allowable turn under this section may be made from either lane unless a
regulatory sign specifically prohibits it.
      (2)   The city may, by ordinance, prohibit any such right or left turn
against a steady red signal at any intersection, which prohibition shall be
effective when an official sign prohibiting the movement is erected at the
intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (D)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(KRS 189.338)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.055 CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES, TRAFFIC LANES
   The Street Department is hereby authorized to do the following:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at any
other places as he may deem necessary.
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (C)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he may
deem advisable, consistent with this chapter.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE IV. TRAFFIC RULES
Division 1. Operation Generally
§ 40.100 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.101 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONES PROHIBITED
   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven through or within a safety zone.
(KRS 189.570(7))
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.102 APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights,
visible under normal conditions from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to
the front of the vehicle; or the driver is given audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain in that position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except
when otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle, operated in conformity
with the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   This section does not relieve the driver of any emergency or public
safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property on the highway.
(KRS 189.940(7))
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
Division 2. Accidents; Violations
§ 40.150 DUTY OF OPERATOR
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 40.151 ACCIDENT REPORT
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Grant County
Sheriff's office.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE V. SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 40.200 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "RESIDENTIAL AREA." The territory contiguous to and including a highway if
the property on the highway for a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more
is improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   "CITY STREET." Streets within the city, excepting state highways.
§ 40.201 RESIDENTIAL STREET SPEED LIMITS
   The speed limit for all city streets in residential areas is thirty-five
(35) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted by street signs.
(Ord. 98-1995, passed 4-4-95)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE VI. STOP REGULATIONS
§ 40.250 STOP SIGNS; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED
   (A)   Every sign erected pursuant to this article shall bear the word “stop”
in letters not less than six (6) inches in height. The sign shall, at night, be
rendered luminous by steady or flashing interval illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer, every operator of
a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if not, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of intersection, or, if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it.
After having stopped, the operator shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time when the operator is moving
across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
(KRS 189.330(4))
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE VII. PARKING SCHEDULES
§ 40.300 DESIGNATED PARKING AREAS
   (A)   The city shall place signs which deal with motor vehicle parking in
the city limits.
   (B)   The signs will designate parking areas in the city and shall further
designate no parking areas within the city limits.
   (C)   When the above signs are posted, it shall be a violation of this
section to park a motor vehicle in non-designated areas. A parking citation
shall be issued to all violators pursuant to the provisions of §
40.999.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
40.300 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
five dollars ($5.00) nor more than ten dollars ($10.00). Each day the violation
occurs constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Should a motor vehicle be in violation of §
40.300 for three (3) successive days, the motor vehicle, may be towed away from
the area of violation. The owner of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for
all towing and storage expenses.
(Ord. 229-60, passed 7-1-60; am. Ord. 6-84, passed 6-12-84; Am. Ord. 139-1999,
passed 7-13- 99)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE VIII. FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 40.400 DRIVING IN FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When the vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a
police or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing yellow lights for the person of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE IX. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES
§ 40.600 OFFICIAL SIGNS REQUIRED
   The Mayor or any other person authorized by the Mayor or City Council shall
cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited, or prohibited,
indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
§ 40.601 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing, or cause it to stop
or to be left standing upon the roadway. However, this section shall not be
construed to prevent parking in front of a private residence off the roadway or
street in a city or suburban areas where such parking is otherwise permitted,
as long as the vehicle so parked does not impede the flow of traffic. This
section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the main-traveled portion of
the roadway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
the occupation of the main- traveled portion or impracticable to remove it from
the roadway until repairs have been made or sufficient help obtained for its
removal;
      (2)   Motor vehicles, when required to stop in obedience to the
provisions of any section of state law; any traffic ordinance, regulation, or
sign; or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carrier of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on or discharging passengers therefrom. However,
no such vehicle shall stop for these purposes at a place on the roadway which
does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching motor vehicles from both
direction; or
      (4)   Vehicles which are stopped for a period of not more than 15 minutes
at a time for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid waste as defined
in KRS 224.1-010(30) and which are operated by a:
         (a)   Collection service registered in accordance with KRS 224.43-315;
or
         (b)   Person or organization actively participating in the Adopt-a-
Highway Program; or
      (5)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, at any time, to permit a vehicle to stand in any
of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic-control
device:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within five (5) feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within thirty (30) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within fifteen (15)
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the Mayor or City Council has indicated a different length by signs or
markings;
      (9)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station when a sign is properly posted;
      (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (12)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (14)   In the area between the curb line and the edge of the sidewalk;
      (15)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
or
      (16)   In such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
   (C)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon such a
roadway in violation of this section, he may move the vehicle, or require the
operator or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it to a position off
the paved or improved or main-traveled part of the roadway.
   (E)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   (F)   The restrictions in subparagraph (B)(13) above shall not apply to
sheriffs and their deputies or police officers when operating properly
identified vehicles during performance of their official duties.
(KRS 189.450)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
ARTICLE X. TRUCKS; SEMI-TRAILERS
§ 40.700 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
   The city hereby prohibits the operation of any vehicle having a gross weight
of more than twenty-four thousand (24,000) pounds on and/or over any street
located within the corporate limits and maintained solely by the city unless a
permit is obtained pursuant to the provisions of §
40.701.
(Ord. 6-81, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 307-2022, passed 1-10-23)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.701 PERMIT
   If any person, entity, or corporation shall first obtain a permit from the
City Clerk/Treasurer then they and/or it shall be permitted to operate
according to the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 6-81, passed 6-2-81)
§ 40.702 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT
   The permit shall not be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer unless the
person, entity, or corporation, shall first post a bond to the city with good
and sufficient surety that they or it will pay any and all damage caused by the
operation of all vehicles covered by the permit.
(Ord. 6-81, passed 6-2-81)
§ 40.703 POSTING OF SIGNS
   The City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby ordered and directed to purchase and have
placed at the entrance to the city limits, a small sign reading as follows:
"Trucks having a gross weight or more than 24,000 pounds not allowed on this
street" or words of similar import and meaning.
(Ord. 6-81, passed 6-2-81)
§ 40.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter for which a
specific penalty is not provided shall be deemed guilty of a violation and
shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
40.201 shall be fined in accordance with the schedule of fines contained in KRS
189.394 as is presently in force and as it may be from time to time amended
thereafter.
(Ord. 98-1995, passed 4-4-95)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
40.300 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each
day the violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 8-5-86)
      (2)   Should a motor vehicle be in violation of §
40.300 for three (3) successive days, the motor vehicle may be towed away from
the area of violation. The owner of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for
all towing and storage expenses.
(Ord. 229-60, passed 7-1-60; Am. Ord. 6-84, passed 6-12-84; Am. Ord. 139-1999,
passed 7-13- 99)
   (D)   Anyone who violates §
40.400 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more
than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
40.700 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) for more than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
(Ord. 6-81, passed 6-2-81)
CHAPTER 41: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE I. STREETS
Division 1. Street Improvements
   
41.001   Specifications adopted
Division 2. Street Lights
   
41.050   General provisions
   
41.051   Previously approved development
Division 3. Roads and Bridges
   
41.100   Public hearing required
   
41.101   Notice requirements
   
41.102   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
41.103   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
41.104   Separate hearing for each project not required
ARTICLE II. SIDEWALKS
   
41.200   Care and maintenance
   
41.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Street Improvement Specifications
ARTICLE I. STREETS
Division 1. Street Improvements
§ 41.001 SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED
   The city does hereby adopt specifications for utilities and street
improvements as contained in
Appendix A. The provisions of
Appendix A shall be controlling in the construction of all utilities, streets
and street improvements within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 5-82, passed 11-3-83)
Division 2. Street Lights
§ 41.050 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   No street lighting shall be installed on public streets except in
compliance with this division.
   (B)   All subdivisions currently under construction and to be constructed in
the future within the city limits shall include the construction of public
street lighting according to this division. The location and type light
fixtures shall be set forth on the subdivision improvement plans and meet the
approval of the Grant County Planning Commission's Engineer and be approved as
part of the Grant County Planning Commissions approval of the Improvement Plans
per Section 3.6 (or as amended) of the Grant County/Crittenden Subdivision
Regulations.
   (C)   Street light locations shall be shown on all subdivision plats and
development plans as applicable.
   (D)   Prior to the approval of a final development plan or final development
plan or final subdivision plat, street lighting shall be installed pursuant to
this ordinance or bonded in an amount equal to the estimated cost of
installation plus twenty-five percent (25%).
   (E)   In the event street light installation is bonded, the developer shall
have one (1) year from the approval of the final development plan or final
subdivision plat or until the expiration of the bond for those public
improvements in which to install the street lighting.
   (F)   In developments with underground utilities, the developer shall be
responsible for the provisions of appropriate conduit installation. The conduit
installation shall be performed according to city's specifications. The
developer shall be responsible for pulling the conductors through the conduit,
installation and maintenance of the lights, poles and fixtures.
   (G)   The city shall accept only two styles of light fixtures for public
financial responsibility and maintenance.
      (1)   Styles accepted by the city are colonial post top and cobra head as
provided by the servicing utility. The colonial post top is available only for
underground installation. The cobra head is available for both underground and
overhead installation.
      (2)   All other styles must receive prior specific written approval from
the city. Approval will not be given unless the developer or a properly
constituted homeowner's association provides adequate security for the payment
of all costs associated with the requested style in excess of the customary
cost of the styles approved in excess of the customary of the styles approved
in division (1), above. Approval of the style shall be within the sole
discretion of the city. No entitlement to any other style is granted by this
provision. Approval may be denied for any reason.
   (H)   Light fixtures for local streets, sub-collector streets, arterial
streets shall be one hundred (100) watt high pressure sodium, or such other
alternatives as provided by the city. In addition there shall be this same
lighting installed at all street intersections and within each cul-de-sac.
These street classifications shall be determined according to the definitions
set out in the Subdivision Regulations.
   (I)   All light fixtures shall be spaced at intervals of no less than three
hundred (300) feet. The specific spacing for a particular installation shall be
determined by the anticipated coverage of the particular fixture level. This
spacing may be varied only with approval of the city. Different spacing may be
required by the city in the event circumstance exist which render the standard
spacing inappropriate.
(Ord. 192-2006, passed 8-1-06)
§ 41.051 PREVIOUSLY APPROVED DEVELOPMENT
   All developments for which a final development plan or final subdivision
plat have not been approved prior to the effective date of this chapter, but
for which development no street lightning has been installed, shall:
   (A)   Within forty-five (45) days of the effective date of this chapter,
submit to the city and to the Planning and Zoning Commission a street lighting
plan which provides light fixtures locations, wattage levels and fixture style.
Any plan which includes a light fixtures styles other than permitted about
shall also provide documentation required in division (G)(2) above. No
lighting-related construction shall begin prior to receipt of written approval
of a submitted lighting plan. The written approval must be signed by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator or its Engineer.
   (B)   Within sixty (60) days of receipt of approval of the street lighting
plan required in division (A) above, install the light fixtures according to
that approved plan.
   (C)   In the event the developer fails to install the approved street
lighting plan within the time allotted in division (B), the city may grant an
extension of time which to complete installation. No extension of time shall be
granted except upon a showing of the developer's good-faith effort to complete
the installation and the posting of the developer's bond in the Planning and
Zoning office, in the amount of the cost of the installation of the approved
street lighting plan, plus twenty-five percent (25%). This bond shall secure
the cost of the city's installation of the approved street lighting plan in the
event of the developer's failure to complete installation according to the plan
within the extension granted above. The city's election to call the developer's
bond and to undertake installation according to the approved plan shall not
preclude the filing of charges in Grant District Court seeking the penalties
provided in §
41.999.
   (D)   Lighting-related construction begun prior to the effective date of
this division and completed no later that forty-five (45) days after the
effective date of this division shall not be affected by the provisions of this
division.
   (E)   Lighting-related construction begun prior to the effective date of
this division but not completed within forty-five (45) days after the effective
date of this division shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
division.
(Ord. 192-2006, passed 8-1-06)
Division 3. Roads and Bridges
§ 41.100 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
Cross reference:
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 25
§ 41.101 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
   Before the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenue on
a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 41.102 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 41.103 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION 
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in §
41.100 has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 41.104 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED
   This article shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for each
project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this article.
(KRS 174.100(4))
ARTICLE II. SIDEWALKS
§ 41.200 CARE AND MAINTENANCE
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of or the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the sidewalk abutting his premises
free and clear of snow and ice, and to remove therefrom all snow and ice
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will ordinarily not exceed
twelve (12) hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner of or the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of any obstruction thereon.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of or the occupant of each and
every parcel of real estate in the city abutting a city street to keep the
grass mowed in a reasonable manner. That the area to be mowed shall include any
real estate which lies between a city sidewalk and a city street.
      (2)   It also shall be the duty of the owner of or the occupant of each
and every parcel of real estate to keep the grass cuttings cleared off the
sidewalks at all times.
(Ord. 113-1996, passed 1-7-99)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
41.999
§ 41.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
41.200 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (B)   (1)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the
provisions of §§
41.050 and
41.051 shall be a misdemeanor; and each day a violation continues to exist
shall be a separate and distinct offense for which:
         (a)   Anyone convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of
five hundred dollars ($500) as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of twelve (12) months as set for
in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
         (b)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred
Dollars ($100) for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of §§
41.050 and
41.051.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
41.050 or
41.051 for which there is no penalty specifically set forth shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
(Ord. 113-1999, passed 1-7-97; Am. Ord. 192-2006, passed 8-1-06)
Appendix A
Specifications for City of Crittenden Utilities and Street Improvements
Streets
 
                                             Pavement Width
               Minimum Right-of-Way No Parking 1 Side 2 Sides
Dead-end street 40 feet              18 feet    28     38
Thru street     50 feet              0          28     38
Industrial      50 feet              0          28     38
 
 
                 Concrete Asphalt Pavement Base Finish
Dead-end street   6 inches 6 inches         4"   2"
Thru street       7 inches 7 inches         5"   2"
Industrial street 8 inches 8 inches         6"   2"
 
   (1)   All streets must have a minimum of a roll curb. Square block type curb
would be approved.
   (2)   All concrete streets must have a minimum of eighty (80) pounds mesh,
the full width and length of street, or an equal in rebars and smooth joint
pins.
   (3)   Strength or 28 day cured concrete, shall be a minimum of 3,500 pounds
per square inch.
   (4)   Concrete should not be poured when the temperature is below 35
degrees, or above 85 degrees, without protection.
   (5)   All blacktop base and finish coats shall comply with Department of
Kentucky Highways.
(Ord. 5-82, passed 11-3-83)
Subgrade Preparation
1.0 GRADING
   This term shall consist of all grading above or below subgrade elevations ,
of whatever nature, required to bring the street to the proper subgrade
elevation including necessary excavation for curb, gutter, sidewalk,
construction of embankments, excavation and proper sloping of all cuts, and
other work incidental thereto.
1.1 EXCAVATIONS:
   All excavations shall be made to approximate subgrade elevations and shall
be true to grade. Material below subgrade elevation in cuts shall not be
loosened by plowing or other methods during the progress of the work.
1.2 EXCAVATION BELOW SUBGRADE:
   Whenever excavation below subgrade elevation to remove spongy material,
vegetable matter, or other material is ordered by the Planning Commission, or
its duly authorized representative, the contractor shall remove same in a
satisfactory manner acceptable to the Planning Commission, or its duly
authorized representative, and shall replace it with satisfactory material in
layers not to exceed six (6) inches in thickness and shall thoroughly compact
each layer before the next layer is placed.
1.3 CONSTRUCTION OF EMBANKMENTS:
   (A)   Top soil shall be removed to eliminate all vegetation from the area
upon which embankment is to be constructed. Soil so removed may not be used in
construction of embankment.
   (B)   Embankment shall be constructed, of approved materials, to approximate
subgrade elevation in layers not to exceed six (6) inches in thickness and
extending the full width of the embankment. Each layer shall be compacted to
not less than ninety-five percent of the density determined from the "Test for
Moisture-Density Relationship" (AASHO Designation T-99), unless otherwise
directed by the Planning Commission, or its duly authorized representative,
before the next layer is placed.
1.4 SUBGRADE PREPARATION:
   (A)   The subgrade shall be in a moist condition at the time the concrete is
placed. It shall be thoroughly wetted a sufficient time in advance of the
placing of the concrete to insure that there will be no puddles or pockets of
mud when the concrete is placed. The subgrade, however, shall not be allowed to
dry out before the concrete is placed.
   (B)   The subgrade soils shall be of uniform material and density to provide
for satisfactory pavement performance. Soft spots that show up during
construction should be excavated and re-compacted with the same type of
material as found in the adjacent subgrade. Uniform support cannot be obtained
merely by dumping extra granular material on the soft spot. With a uniform
subgrade, excessive shrink and swell of expansive soils shall be prevented by
adequate moisture and density controls during compactions. The compaction of
expansive soil to a density of not less than ninety-five percent of the density
determined from the "Test for Moisture-Density Relationship" (AASHO Designation
T-99) will effectively control shrinking and swelling during periods of dry
weather, providing the subgrade is not allowed to dry before the pavement is
constructed. Concurrent with compaction, the subgrade shall be shaped to plan
elevation, grade, and cross section. Special care shall be taken in compacting
the backfill of sewers, drainage facilities and other permanent structures that
may be in the paved area.
   (C)   Immediately prior to placing the concrete, the subgrade shall be
tested for conformity with the cross section shown on the plans by means of an
approved template riding on the side forms. If necessary, material shall be
removed or added, as required, to bring all portions of the subgrade to the
correct elevation. It shall then be thoroughly compacted and again tested with
the template. Concrete shall not be placed on any portion of the subgrade which
has not been tested for correct elevation. The subgrade should also be cleared
of any loose material which may have fallen upon it.
1.5 EQUIPMENT FOR COMPACTION OF EMBANKMENT AND SUBGRADE
   Any compaction equipment capable of uniformly producing the required
embankment and subgrade densities, without lamination or, or within successive
layers, will be permitted by the Planning Commission, or its duly authorized
representative. All compaction, equipment shall be in good condition and shall
be operated efficiently to assure uniform compaction.
1.6 SUBGRADE FOR CURBS, GUTTERS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
   Subgrade area to be occupied by curbs, gutters, sidewalks and driveways
shall be excavated, backfilled, as required, and compacted to establish grade.
This work shall be done with particular care in accordance with all
requirements herein.
1.7 EXCESS EXCAVATION
   Excavated material, that is not suitable for or required for the
construction of embankments, or the backfilling of excavations from which
unsuitable material has been removed, shall belong to and be disposed of by the
contractor. The contractor shall not deposit excess material on private
property.
1.8 BORROW MATERIAL
   If sufficient soil of approved quality is not available on the construction
site for replacing unsuitable materials excavated and removed, or for
embankment construction site for replacing unsuitable material excavated and
removed, or for embankment construction, the contractor shall obtain and supply
suitable borrow soil for such construction.
1.9 SUBBASE
   Subbase may be required for streets that carry large numbers of heavy
trucks. When subbases are required, they shall be constructed with same care
used in the design and placing of the concrete pavement.
1.10 EQUIPMENT OPERATED ON THE STREETS
   The contractor shall be permitted to operate only pneumatic-tired equipment
over any paved street surfaces and shall be responsible for correction of any
damage to street surfaces in any manner resulting from the contractor's
operations.
1.11 PROTECTION OF UTILITY LINES
   The contractor shall at all times take proper precautions for the protection
of utility lines, the presence of which are known, or can be determined by the
examination of appropriate maps of the utility companies and the city. The
contractor shall be financially responsible for the repair of any damage to
such service lines.
1.12 PROTECTION OF MISCELLANEOUS PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
   (A)   The contractor shall at all times take proper precautions for the
protection of and replacement or restoration of driveway culverts, street
intersections, culverts, or aprons, mail boxes, driveway approaches, and all
other public and private installations that may be encountered during
construction. Written approval for completed replacement or restoration work
may be required by the Planning Commission, or its duly authorized
representative.
   (B)   All streets must intersect a cross street with a minimum angle of 75
degrees with a maximum angle of 105 degrees.
   (C)   All work must be inspected by the city engineer before materials are
poured and during finish work. It will be the responsibility of the developer
to maintain the street for one year, before it will be accepted by the city.
Cross reference:
   Joint Details (see drawing) Figure 1
   Catch Basin and Manhole Detail (see drawing) Figure 2
WATER EXTENSION SPECIFICATIONS
   1.   All mains must be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
   2.   Materials that are acceptable: Class 200 PVC plastic, and heavy duty
cast iron.
   3.   Fire Plugs are to be spaced at five hundred (500) feet intervals, with
a ten percent (10%) variation either way to miss driveways, etc. is acceptable.
   4.   Following materials must be purchased from the city:
      a.   Fire Hydrants
      b.   Shut-off valves for hydrants
      c.   Water Meters
      d.   Water Boxes
      e.   Shut-off valves for meter boxes
   5.   Installation of Pipe
      a.   All water mains must have a minimum of 42 inch cover over pipe.
      b.   All pipe will be bedded with one (1) foot of bank run sand and a
minimum of one (1) foot over pipe.
      c.   Backfill will be clean with no rock.
      d.   Shut-off valves will be installed a maximum of 1,000 feet.
      e.   City Engineer must be notified so he can make an inspection before
backfill.
      f.   Contractor is required to test line with 200 pounds of pressure for
four to twenty-four hours.
      g.   All house connections for meter box to house will be a minimum of 3/
4 inch copper pipe.
      h.   Water meter boxes will be installed so as not to allow surface
ground water to enter box.
      i.   Upon completion of above items and inspection by the city engineer,
the city will accept the lines after one year of maintenance by the contractor.
      j.   Sterilization of water mains must be completed by filling with
chlorine and allowing to stand for thirty (30) hours followed by sufficient
flush out.
EXTENSION OF SEWER AND RELATED EQUIPMENT
   All materials used for sewer extensions and related equipment, such as pump
stations, house laterals, etc., will comply with specifications written by KZF,
and on file at the Crittenden city building.
(Ord. 5-82, passed 11-3-82
TITLE 5: PUBLIC REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 50   NUISANCES
   
CHAPTER 51   ANIMALS
   
CHAPTER 52   OFFENSES
   
CHAPTER 53   YARD AND GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 50: NUISANCES
Section
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
50.003   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
50.004   Abatement procedure
   
50.005   Lien authorized
   
50.006   Nuisance created by others
   
50.007   Suspension of license
 
   
50.999   Penalty
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "NUISANCE." Any person doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 90-1994, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 209-2010, passed 3-2-10)
§ 50.002 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any provision of law.
(Am. Ord. 209-2010, passed 3-2-10)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to any person to cause, permit, maintain, or
allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
   (B)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to
be or remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions, or action are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation, including the excessive
growth of weeds, grass and other vegetation. Unless otherwise provided,
“excessive” shall mean growth of a height of twelve (12) inches or more;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, waste, and other
abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other things which endangers public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants;
      (3)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes,
insects, and other vermin, or otherwise endangers the public health, safety, or
welfare, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or
occupants of adjacent property, or risks blowing into any street, sidewalk, or
property of another, or has a depressing influence upon the property values in
the neighborhood in the opinion of the Mayor;
      (4)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or present a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
      (5)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises, which can be reasonably said to disturb others in the
vicinity;
      (6)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
      (7)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within three (3)
days after death;
      (8)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
      (9)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
      (10)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any
lot or piece of ground;
      (11)   For the owner or operator of any truck or other vehicle carrying
manure, swill, garbage, offal, rubbish, or any other noxious, offensive, or
dangerous substance or the contents of any privy vault, cesspool, or sink to
allow the scattering, spilling, or leakage of the contents thereof upon any
street or other public way or upon any yard, driveway, or within any premises,
whether public or private, or to allow the vehicle to stand or remain near any
building, place of business, or residence, or to unreasonably delay the time of
loading or unloading or in any passing along any street or through any
inhabited place or connection therewith to be kept in an unsanitary and
unwholesome condition or to be stored in any place where needless offense is
caused to any person.
   (12)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over
stretches of the streets or less than 8 feet over sidewalks, or the growing and
maintenance of shrubbery in excess of 3 feet in height within the radius of 20
feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line
of another street. No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and property
line of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb
line of any street intersects with the curb line of another street;
   (13)   Storage of explosive materials which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity;
   (14)   Open, uncovered, or insecurely covered wells, cisterns, pits,
cellars, excavations, vaults or other similar holes in any open or unfenced
lots or place;
   (15)   Junk, scrap metal, automobile parts, including salvage, wrecking, and
junkyards without proper permits or approval required under other ordinances
herein;
   (16)   Inoperable machines and inoperable, wrecked, or unlicensed motor
vehicles that would normally be used for the conveyance of persons or property,
including but not limited to automobiles, campers, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, and boats. Unless otherwise provided, "inoperable" shall mean unable
to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts, and which has
remained in such condition for a period of not less than ten (10) consecutive
days.
   (17)   Temporary storage units for a period in excess of fourteen (14) days,
without the prior written approval of the City, but in no event for a period
longer than thirty (30) days;
   (18)   Dumping or unauthorized storage of any items previously listed in
this section.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 8-1-78; Am Ord. 90-1994, passed 5-3-95; Am. Ord. 209-2010,
passed 3-2-10)
Cross reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 70
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Ch. 72
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999
   Water and sewer, see
Ch. 30
§ 50.004 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
   Whenever a nuisance as set forth in §
50.003 is found to exist within the city or within the city's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the health officer or some other duly designated officer of the
city shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon
which the nuisance exists upon the person, owner, occupant, invitee, guest,
licensee, manager, agent, corporation, or other individual or entity causing,
permitting, or maintaining the nuisance by hand-delivery or certified mail to
the last known address of th property owner as it appears on the current tax
assessment roll and stating that the nuisance must be remedied within fifteen
(15) days of receipt of the written notice. Upon failure to remedy or correct
the nuisance in a satisfactory manner within the seven (7) day period, or upon
return back to the city of the certified letter addressed to the last known
address of the property owner as it appears on the current tax assessment roll,
whichever occurs first, the authorized city official is authorized to send city
employees or other duly authorized officers or agents upon the property to
remove, remedy, and abate the nuisance situation accordingly at the cost of the
individual or entity causing, permitting, or maintaining the nuisance to be
invoiced and paid within ten (10) days then made a part of the individual or
entity’s tax bill if unpaid; is authorized to file a lien as stated in §
50.005; and assess other penalties as stated in §
50.999. Failure of the City to abate the nuisance does not waive the City's
claim of the nuisance or ability to abate at a future time, nor does it waive
the City's ability to assess the other penalties as stated in Section
50.999, as the City's ability to abate the nuisance may be cost, time, ability,
or otherwise prohibited.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 8-1-78; Am. Ord. 90-1004, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 209-
2010, passed 3-2-10; Am. Ord. 214-2010, passed 8-3-10)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisance, see KRS 381.770
§ 50.005 LIEN AUTHORIZED
   (A)   Upon the failure of person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served, pursuant to the provisions of §
50.004 to abate the same, the health officer or other duly designated officer
of the city or City Clerk or Mayor shall proceed to abate the nuisance and
prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement.
   (B)   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance
under the provisions of §
50.004 shall constitute a lien against the property upon which such nuisance
existed, which lien shall be filed, proven, and collected as provided by law.
The lien shall be noticed to all persons from the time of its recording, shall
bear interest at the legal rate thereafter until satisfied, and shall be added
to the tax bill for the premises upon which the nuisance existed.
(Ord.5-1978, passed 8-1-78; Am. Ord. 90-1994, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 209-2010,
passed 3-2-10)
§ 50.006 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care the owner or operator ought to have become aware of.
(Am. Ord. 209-2010, passed 3-2-10)
§ 50.007   SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
public health, safety, or welfare, the City Council may vote by majority to
suspend the license of the person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally or by certified mail upon the licensee or at the premises where the
nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as the Council may direct.
(Ord. 209-2010, passed 3-2-10)
§ 50.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Anyone who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided, shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of §§
50.003 or
50.004 shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and each day shall be a continuing violation.
(Ord. 90-1994, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 209-2010, passed 3-2-10; Am. Ord. 317-
2023, passed 6-13-23)
CHAPTER 51: ANIMALS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Keeping of livestock prohibited
   
51.003   Harboring of fowl
ARTICLE II. DOGS
Division 1. General Provisions
   
51.100   Registration required
   
51.101   Unlicensed dogs
   
51.102   Running at large prohibited
   
51.103   Excessive barking prohibited
Division 2. Dangerous or Vicious Dogs
   
51.150   Definitions
   
51.151   Confinement required
 
   
51.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "DOMESTIC ANIMALS." Any animal kept as a pet in or near the house among the
following class: Dogs, cats, rabbits, parakeet, canary, parrot, aquarium fish.
   "LIVESTOCK." All animals kept or raised for use or pleasure except domestic
animals.
(Ord. 11-81, passed 9-1-81)
§ 51.002 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED
   No person shall harbor, keep, maintain, or house any livestock within the
city limits except that a horse, pony, cow, or calf may be kept, maintained,
and housed provided the following requirements are met:
   (A)   No more than one (1) animal per each two (2) acres of land contained
on the dweller's lot;
   (B)   The animal must be kept in a pen, barn, or other enclosure designed
securely to prevent its escape;
   (C)   The total area encompassed by the pen, barn, or other enclosure either
separately or in combination must be at least one (1) acre;
   (D)   The pen, barn, or other enclosure must be at least two hundred (200)
feet off the nearest dedicated city, county, or state road or street; and
   (E)   The outside boundaries of the pen, barn, or other enclosure must be
located so that no portion of the pen, barn, or other enclosure is nearer than
one hundred (100) feet to any boundary line of the dweller's lot.
(Ord. 11-81, passed 9-1-81)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 HARBORING OF FOWL
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
51.002 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Crittenden, it shall be
permissible to harbor fowl within the confines of the City of Crittenden
pursuant to the following. Non-crowing fowl, such as hens, may be kept within
the city limits for non-commercial purposes, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   The non-crowing fowl shall be kept in a housing structure that is:
      (1)   Covered and predator-proof;
      (2)   Thoroughly ventilated and odor-free;
      (3)   Designed to prevent any bird from leaving the owner's property;
      (4)   Of sufficient size to admit free movement of each bird, providing
at least three-square feet of space per bird; and
      (5)   Designed to be easily accessed, cleaned, and maintained by the
owners.
   (B)   The housing structure must be in good repair. All gates or doors to
the fence or structure shall fit properly and shall be locked or secured by a
latch.
   (C)   No non-crowing fowl shall be located closer than four feet to the
owner's residence, and no non-crowing fowl shall be located closer than ten
feet to any residential structure occupied by someone other than the fowl
owner, custodian, or keeper.
   (D)   Stored feed must be kept in a rodent and predator-proof container.
   (E)   No more than eight non-crowing fowl shall be kept on a lot smaller
than one-half acre.
   (F)   All non-crowing fowl will be housed and kept in the rear of the
residence.
(Ord. 313-2023, passed 1-25-23)
ARTICLE II. DOGS
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 51.100 REGISTRATION REQUIRED
   All dogs kept and maintained within the city limits shall be registered with
the Grant County Animal Control and shall be duly licensed as provided by law.
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-4-74)
§ 51.101 UNLICENSED DOGS
   All unlicensed dogs running loose upon the streets, public ways, public
alleys and private property of persons not their owners, which have not been
licensed as required by law, shall be taken into custody by the Grant County
Animal Control or any peace officer and confined in the Grant County Animal
Control pound. If not claimed by the owner within seven (7) days, the dog shall
be disposed of by Grant County Animal Control as he may see fit. Animal Control
shall be entitled to a fee for services in releasing any non-licensed dog taken
into custody.
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-4-74)
§ 51.102 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED
   No dog, licensed or unlicensed shall be permitted to run loose upon the
streets, public ways, public alleys, and private properties of persons other
than their owners in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance or as to
constitute a hazard to the health, welfare and well-being of the persons in the
community and any dog so constituting a nuisance, shall be taken into custody
by the Grant County Animal Control or any peace officer, and confined in the
Grant County Animal Control pound. If not claimed by the owner within seven (7)
days the dog shall be disposed of by the Grant County Animal Control as he may
see fit. The Animal Control shall be entitled to a fee for services in
releasing any dog so constituting a nuisance or a hazard to the health of the
community, to its owner and only then upon the agreement of the owner that the
dog shall not be further permitted to run at large.
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-4-74)
Cross reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 50
§ 51.103 EXCESSIVE BARKING PROHIBITED
   Any dog which barks or howls for a period in excess of fifteen (15) minutes
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the dog may be impounded as
provided in §
51.102 and the owner of the dog shall be subject to the fines provided in §
51.999.
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-4-74)
Cross reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 50
   Penalty for violation, see §
51.999
Division 2. Dangerous or Vicious Dogs
§ 51.150 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "CONTROL." The dog is within sight and hearing, and will respond instantly
to call or order; or the dog is in a conveyance for travel, such as an
automobile or train, or is confined to a travel crate or carrying case.
   "DOG." Any member of the canine species, male or female, of any age.
   "KEEP." Possession, controlling, exercising, or allowing to run at large.
   "OWNER." Any person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog or other animal.
"OWNER" and "PERSON" shall include corporations, businesses, and/or
organizations, as well as individuals. The knowledge and acts of agents or
other persons employed by corporations, businesses and/or organizations in
regard to animals transported, owned, or employed by or in the custody of such
corporations, businesses, and/or organizations.
   "UNCONFINED." Not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely
enclosed and located pen or a dog run area upon the premises of the person
described above. The pen or dog run area must also have either side six (6)
feet high or a secure top.
   "VICIOUS DOG."
   (A)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to
cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or other
domestic animals; or
   (B)   Any dog which attacks a human being or other domestic animal without
provocation.
(Ord. 122-1997, passed 1-6-98)
§ 51.151 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED
   (A)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a vicious dog
shall suffer or permit the animal to go unconfined on the premises of such
person.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a vicious dog
shall suffer or permit the dog to go beyond the premises of the person unless
the dog is securely leashed or otherwise securely restrained.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a dog is not under the required
control if the dog chases, injures, or kills any person or domestic animal or
damages or commits any nuisance upon property other than that of its owner,
keeper, or harborer.
   (D)   Subsection (A) and (B) are necessary controls on the unrestrained
activity of vicious animals which threaten the safety and pleasantness of
streets, parks, sidewalks, yards, and all areas of the city. Lack of knowledge
or lack of intent is not a defense to a violation of this section.
(Ord. 122-1997, passed 1-6-98)
Cross reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 50
   Penalty for violation, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
51.002 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day the
violation continues to exist shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 11-81, passed 9-1-81)
   (B)   Any owner who violates the provisions of §
51.102 shall upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-4-74)
   (C)   (1)   Any animal in violation of the provisions of §
51.151 may be seized and impounded by the Grant County Sheriff's office and/or
appropriate enforcement agency and shall be confined in a suitable place.
      (2)   Each violation of §
51.151 and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this section
shall be a misdemeanor. Each day the violation continues to exist shall be a
separate and distinct offense for which:
         (a)   A person convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both,
and in addition to the reasonable costs in seizing, impounding, and confining
the animal.
         (b)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 122-1997, passed 1-6-98)
CHAPTER 52: OFFENSES
ARTICLE I. CONCEALED WEAPONS
   
52.001   Carrying concealed deadly weapons prohibited
ARTICLE II. CURFEW
   
52.100   Definitions
   
52.101   Curfew established
   
52.102   Offenses
   
52.103   Defenses
   
52.104   Enforcement
   
52.105   Sheriff review and report
ARTICLE III. PLANTS
   
52.200   Plantings in rights-of-way
 
   
52.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. CONCEALED WEAPONS
§ 52.001 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS PROHIBITED
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 237:
      (1)   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon into a meeting of
this municipality except that nothing in this section shall preclude a member
of the City Council or Mayor from carrying a concealed deadly weapon at a
meeting of the body of which he or she is a member; and
      (2)   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon in any building
owned, leased or controlled by the city. The areas so designated shall be
identified by signs posted at the entrance of said areas.
   (B)   Those buildings owned, leased or controlled by the city but used for
public housing by private persons, highway rest areas, firing ranges and
private dwellings shall be exempt from the restrictions of this section.
(Ord. 112-1996, passed 12-3-96)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violations; see §
52.999
ARTICLE II. CURFEW
§ 52.100 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CURFEW HOURS.”
      (1)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the
following day; and
      (2)   The hours between 12:00 a.m., prevailing time and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday and Sunday.
   “EMERGENCY.” An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, without limitation,
fires, floods, natural disasters, automobile accidents and any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   “ESTABLISHMENT.” Any privately owned place of business, which is operated
for a profit, and to which the public is invited, including, without
limitation, any place of amusement or entertainment.
   “GUARDIAN.”
      (1)   Any person who is the guardian of the person of a minor, pursuant
to a court order or judgment; or
      (2)   Any public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court order.
   “MINOR.” Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   “OPERATOR.” Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting an establishment, including, without
limitation, the members or partners of an association or partnership, and the
officers of a corporation.
   “PARENT.” Includes the natural parent, adoptive parent and step parent of a
person under eighteen (18) years of age, and also any person least eighteen
(18) years of age who has been authorized and appointed by a parent or guardian
to have the care, custody and control of a child or ward thereof under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, without limitation, streets, highways, parks,
playgrounds and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses,
office buildings and transportation facilities.
   “REMAIN.” To linger or stay, or to fail to leave the premises when requested
to do so by any peace officer, or the owner, tenant, operator or any other
person in control of the premises.
   “SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.” A bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
§ 52.101 CURFEW ESTABLISHED
The following curfew hours for minors are hereby established by, in, and for
the city as follows:
   (A)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the following
day; and
   (B)   The hours between 12:00 a.m., prevailing time, and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
§ 52.102 OFFENSES
   During the curfew hours established hereby:
   (A)   No minor shall remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment; and
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any minor shall knowingly permit or allow, by
insufficient control or supervision, or otherwise, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment; and
   (C)   No owner, operator, or employee of an establishment shall knowingly
permit, or allow by insufficient supervision and control, or otherwise, any
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment.
(Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
52.999
§ 52.103 DEFENSES
   The following circumstances are hereby established as affirmative defenses
to any criminal or civil proceedings for any violation of this chapter.
   (A)   The minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the parent or guardian thereof; or
      (2)   In a motor vehicle in the course of interstate travel; or
      (3)   Engaged in any employment activity, or going to or returning home
from any employment activity, without any detour or stop; or
      (4)   Involved in an emergency; or
      (5)   On the sidewalk abutting the residence of the minor, or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor, without any complaint by the next door
neighbor to the Sheriff department of the city about the presence of the minor
thereon; or
      (6)   Attending any school or religious activity, or any recreational
activity supervised by the adults and sponsored by either the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from any such activity, without any detour
or stop; or
      (7)   Exercising any rights secured and protected by the first amendment
to the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, or the right of peaceable assembly; or
      (8)   Married or otherwise emancipated; or
   (B)   The owner, operator, or employee of an establishment has promptly
notified the Sheriff department of the city that a minor was present on the
premises during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
§ 52.104 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   Before enforcing any provision of this chapter by a citation, arrest,
or other custodial activity, the enforcing officer or officers shall inquire of
the person suspected of being a minor as to the actual age of that person and
his reason and purpose for remaining or otherwise being in a public place or
establishment during the curfew hours.
   (B)   No enforcing officer shall enforce any provision of this chapter by
any citation, arrest or other custodial activity unless the officer reasonably
believes from the responses of the person suspected of being a minor or any
other circumstances, that an offense and violation of this chapter has
occurred, and that there are no defenses to the enforcement of this chapter as
described herein.
   (C)   In the enforcement of this chapter, all enforcing officers shall
comply with the duties identified in KRS 610.200 through KRS 610.280, and shall
also comply with the provisions of all other applicable laws, including,
without limitation, the Kentucky Unified Juvenile Code in KRS Chapters 600 to
645.
§ 52.105 SHERIFF REVIEW AND REPORT
   Twelve (12) months after the enactment of this chapter, the sheriff shall
review the enforcement thereof, and report and make recommendation to the city
council regarding the effectiveness thereof and the continuing need therefore.
The report of the Sheriff shall specifically include the following information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing this chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the sheriffs department; and
   (B)   The impact of the enforcement of the chapter on crime statistics; and
   (C)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for violations of this
chapter; and
   (D)   The city’s net cost of enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
ARTICLE III. PLANTS
§ 52.200 PLANTINGS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to place any plant
other than grass or flowers in the area beginning with the edge of pavement of
a public street extending back into the property for a distance of fifteen (15)
feet.
(Ord. 309-2022, passed 1-10-23)
§ 52.999 PENALTY
   (A)   (1)   In the event any person is found to have violated the provisions
of §
52.001 that person may be denied entrance to the public building or may be
ordered to leave the building.
      (2)   In the event any employees of the City of Crittenden violate the
provisions of §
52.001 that employee in violation shall be subject to employee disciplinary
measures of the city.
   (B)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation
thereof shall be and constitute a separate and distinct offense for which:
      (1)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a
court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not
to exceed the maximum amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) as set forth in
KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of
twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
      (2)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first offense, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
subsequent offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in
the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty (30) days after
citation of the violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 112-1996, passed 12-3-93; Am. Ord. 281-2019, passed 12-3-19)
CHAPTER 53: YARD AND GARAGE SALES
   
53.001   Sales limited; license required
   
53.999   Penalty
§ 53.001 SALES LIMITED; LICENSE REQUIRED
   Property owners in the city may hold as many as two (2) sales per year of
personally owned items upon their own property, each sale to last no longer
than two (2) days, by obtaining a license from the City Clerk/Treasurer; the
fee for which shall be five dollars ($5.00).
(Ord. 6-1978, passed 10-3-78; Am. Ord. 144-1999, passed 10-12-99)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
53.999
§ 53.999 PENALTY
   Any person, firm, corporation or association violating the provisions of §
53.001 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each day of sale conducted in violation of this section.
(Ord. 6-1978, passed 10-3-78; Am. Ord. 144-1999, passed 10-12-99)
TITLE 6: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 60   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
   
CHAPTER 61   INSURANCE LICENSES
   
CHAPTER 62   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
   
CHAPTER 63   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES AND FEES
   
CHAPTER 64    PEER TO PEER SHORT TERM HOME RENTALS
CHAPTER 60: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
60.001   License required
   
60.002   License tax
   
60.003   Due date
   
60.004   License certificate
   
60.005   License to be posted
   
60.006   Business location
   
60.007   Purpose of tax
   
60.008   Enforcement
   
60.999   Penalty
§ 60.001 LICENSE REQUIRED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, partnership, or
other form of doing business, within the corporate limits of the city to engage
in any business occupation, trade or profession for which a license is required
by this chapter, or to sell, offer for sale, any article of goods, wares, or
merchandise for sale of which a license is required by this chapter, or to do
any act for the doing of which a license is required by this chapter without
first having procured a license to do so and without having first paid the
required license tax therefore.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
60.999
§ 60.002 LICENSE TAX
   Each person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or any form of
business organization, owing operating, investing or engaging in any business,
occupation, trade or profession, whether such be operated or conducted
separately or in connection with other businesses, occupations, trades or
professions, shall pay the following occupational license tax:
   (A)   For any of the above having a fixed place of business located in the
city or engaging in business in the city, shall pay an annual, graduated
occupational license tax based on the number of employees as follows:
 
Owner operated          
   0 employees      $28.00
   1, 2 or 3 employe$43.00
   4 to 10 employees$83.00
   over 10 employees$113.00
 
   (B)   General contractors and professional employers for this section shall
be termed owners under subsection (A) and all subcontractors, laborers, and
employees who work under a general contractor or professional employer are
termed employees under this chapter.
   (C)   Any persons engaged in selling or unloading, not specifically covered
in subsection (A) $ ___ per day or $28.00 per year, said rate of $28.00 per
year shall be the maximum charge for anyone selling or unloading for business
purposes in the city.
   (D)   Each coin operated machine ten dollars ($10.00) per year. Coin
operated machines shall include any lawful coin or token-operated machine or
device which contains no element of chance and which as a result of depositing
a coin, token, or other object automatically or by some mechanical operation
affords music or amusement of some character with or without vending any
merchandise, but in addition to any merchandise. Coin machines shall not
include any bona fide merchandise vending machine in which there are no
amusement features.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83, Am. Ord. 72-1992, passed 4-7-92; Am. Ord. 114-97,
passed 3-4-97)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
60.999
§ 60.003 DUE DATE
   All license taxes levied and all licenses issued under this chapter shall be
due July 1 and all such licenses shall expire on June 30 of each succeeding
year except in the case of a new business license for new businesses, that is,
for applicants for licenses who were not in business on July 1 of that year,
may be issued upon payment of a prorata portion of the license tax for the
license year, any fraction of a month of the license year remaining shall be
counted as a full month and provide further that no license taxes shall be pro-
rated to an amount less than ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
60.999
§ 60.004 LICENSE CERTIFICATE
   Every person required to obtain a city license for any of their businesses
herein enumerated shall pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer the required license
tax and obtain the signature of the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the certificate
of license, which certificate shall be evidence of the fact that his license
tax has been duly paid. The license certificate shall be void and of no effect
without the signature of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The fee to be paid for each
certificate of license to the City Clerk/Treasurer is zero dollars ($0.00).
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
60.999
§ 60.005 LICENSE TO BE POSTED
   Every person holding a license for any of the purposes mentioned herein
shall keep the license posted in his place of business, if any, in a
conspicuous place, or if he has no conspicuous place of business, shall keep
the license upon his person, so that it may be inspected upon request by the
proper authority, and every person holding a city license shall produce the
license for inspection whenever required to do so by the City Attorney, City
Clerk/Treasurer, police officer, Mayor or any member of City Council.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
60.999
§ 60.006 BUSINESS LOCATION
   The license tax herein provided for shall be required where an individual,
firm or corporation may have separate location shall require the license tax
according to the business conducted therein.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
§ 60.007 PURPOSE OF TAX
   All revenue received for payment of license taxes and penalties required by
this chapter shall be paid into and become a part of the general fund of the
city to be used for the general operating expenses of the city.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
§ 60.008 ENFORCEMENT
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk/Treasurer, Mayor or any police
officer upon his or her learning that any person, firm or corporation required
by this chapter to pay any license tax, has not paid the same to send to that
person, firm, or corporation a required letter stating that the license is due
and that unless it is paid within ten (10) days a citation will be issued. If
after ten (10) days from the date of mailing this letter the person, firm or
corporation has not paid the license tax, then the City Clerk/Treasurer, Mayor
or police officer shall thereupon cause a citation to be issued.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
§ 60.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any person, firm, or
corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense; each day the person, firm or corporation continues the violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating §
60.005 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00). No license provided for herein shall be assigned or transferred to
any person for any purpose at any time.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 6-9-83)
CHAPTER 61: INSURANCE LICENSES
Section
   
61.001   Imposition of tax
   
61.002   Life insurance policies
   
61.003   Other insurance policies
   
61.004   Due date
   
61.005   Breakdown of collections required
   
61.999   Penalty
§ 61.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 1985, and thereafter on a calendar year
basis.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 11-1-84)
§ 61.002 LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the City of Crittenden shall be nine percent (9%) of the first year's
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 11-1-84)
§ 61.003 OTHER INSURANCE POLICIES
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be nine percent
(9%) of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason
of the issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits
of the city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to
transact, less all premiums returned to policy holders; however, any license
fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received
for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to their
employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers'
Compensation Act and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2); premiums
received on health insurance policies issued to individuals; and premiums
received on policies issued through the state health plan created in KRS
304.17B-005.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 11-1-84)
§ 61.004 DUE DATE
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter.
§ 61.005 BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTION REQUIRED
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (a)   casualty;
   (b)   automobile;
   (c)   inland marine;
   (d)   fire and allied perils;
   (e)   health; and
   (f)   life.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 11-1-84)
§ 61.999 PENALTY
   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date pursuant to §
61.004 shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010
(6).
(Ord. 9-84, passed 11-1-84)
CHAPTER 62: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
   
62.001   Imposition of tax
   
62.002   Tax due
   
62.003   Lien imposed
   
62.004   Use of tax
   
62.999   Penalty
§ 62.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 110-1996, passed 10-1-96)
§ 62.002 TAX DUE
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a two percent (2%) discount by May 31, 1997, or without the
discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all subsequent tax years, the following timetable is hereby
established: The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a two
percent (2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 110-1996, passed 10-1-96)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
62.999
§ 62.003 LIEN IMPOSED
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by this chapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 110-1996, passed 10-1-96)
§ 62.004 USE OF TAX
   All money collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 110-1996, passed 10-1-96)
§ 62.999 PENALTY
   All taxes due in accordance with §
62.002 which are not paid before June 30, 1997, for the tax year 1996, or which
are not paid before January 31, for all subsequent years tax years shall be
deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and
shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
(Ord. 110-1996, passed 10-1-96)
CHAPTER 63: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES AND FEES
Section
   
63.001   Purpose
   
63.002   Definitions
   
63.003   Scope
   
63.004   Licenses
   
63.005   ABC Administrator
   
63.006   Hours for sale and delivery
   
63.007   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
63.008   Enforcement; investigation and inspection of premises
   
63.009   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
63.010   Signs and advertising
   
63.011   Patio and outdoor sales allowed
   
63.012   Keg registration
   
63.013   Fees; application
   
63.014   Refund of license fee
   
63.015   Lost or destroyed license
   
63.016   Revocation or suspension and hearing
   
63.017   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; hearing
   
63.018   Refusal of license
   
63.019   Review of license
   
63.020   Regulatory license fee
   
63.021   Change of information
   
63.022   Dormancy
   
63.023   Approval of premises
   
63.024   Delinquent taxes or fees
   
63.025   Books, records reports
   
63.026   Cost of additional police protection for temporary event
   
63.027   Implementation
§ 63.001 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.002 DEFINITIONS
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context otherwise requires, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.003 SCOPE
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the manufacture and sale of malt
beverages, wine and distilled spirits on any premises or establishment within
the city. The manufacture and/or sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled
spirits on any premises or establishment within the city pursuant to a license
issued by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Board shall be governed
by the applicable state statutes; however, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all persons, licensees, premises and establishments within the city to
the fullest extent such application is delegated to the city, or otherwise
authorized, by the provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through 244. Nothing in this
chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee, or the agent or any employee of
any licensee thereof, from the restrictions, requirements and penalties of any
other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any statutes of the
Commonwealth relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements
thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter, except as otherwise
lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.004 LICENSES
   Under this chapter, a license shall be issued by the city only to the owners
and/or operators of those establishments which qualify for licenses applicable
to the city pursuant to KRS Chapter 243. Whenever any person or entity seeks a
license from the Department of State Alcoholic Beverages Control to manufacture
or traffic in alcoholic beverages within the city pursuant to some provision of
KRS Chapters 241 through 244, such state applicant shall apply to the city for
any applicable city license for the privilege of manufacturing and/or
trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city. City license fees, whether
primary or supplemental, shall be assessed in accordance with KRS 243.070 and §
63.014. Regulatory license fees shall be assessed in accordance with KRS
243.075 and §
63.020 where same are applicable.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.005 ABC ADMINISTRATOR
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the City ABC Administrator and any assistant
ABC Administrator subject to approval of the City Council. The term City ABC
Administrator as used in this chapter shall also include any assistant ABC
Administrator.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator may from to time appoint such additional
personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this
chapter with the concurrence of the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   The salary for the Office of City ABC Administrator, if any, together
with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the City ABC Administrator,
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (D)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations and as otherwise
established by the city.
   (E)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an Assistant ABC
Administrator, an investigator or an employee of the city under the supervision
of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a member of the
ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) shall
have all authority as authorized under KRS Chapter 241 through 244.
   (G)   Should the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) at
any time have probable cause to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee
of a licensee or any stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation,
has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to require such
person to appear in person at the city building for all lawful purposes.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s), before
entering upon his or her duties as such, shall take the oath of office as
prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution and shall execute a bond with a
good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than $1,000, the cost of
which shall be paid by the city.
   (I)   (1)   Appeals from the Orders of the City ABC Administrator or
assistant ABC Administrator(s) may be taken to the State ABC Board by filing
with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of the orders of the City ABC
Administrator.
      (2)   Matters at issue shall be heard by the Board as upon an original
proceeding.
      (3)   Appeals from orders of the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) shall be governed by KRS Ch. 13B.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.006 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY
   A licensee shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine
and/or malt beverages Monday through Sunday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
12:00 p.m.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.007 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines or any device of chance are prohibited and shall not be kept on
such premises.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this
chapter to have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises
which is intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from
any law enforcement agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be
operated.
      (2)   In addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this
section, the City ABC Administrator, or any investigator or officer designated
by of such person, shall have the authority to confiscate any and all such
radio receiving apparatus.
   (C)   All licensees shall be required to take precautions and implement
measures reasonably necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the
licensed premises. Accordingly, the licensee shall be responsible for
maintaining security on the licensed premises including providing adequate
outside lighting to permit customers to utilize the parking area and to promote
the safety, health and welfare of the general public utilizing the licensed
premise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize or for any other purpose: (1) in direct
connection with the sale of malt beverages; or (2) except as otherwise allowed
by state law.
   (E)   No quota retail package licensee shall permit any alcoholic beverages
to be consumed on the licensed premises, unless it holds an additional license
authorizing same.
   (F)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
permit any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (G)   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under 21 years of age.
   (H)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least eight inches by 11 inches in 30 point or larger type which states
"Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00) if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages; and
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display the license at all times in a
conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is carried
on so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
      (2)   The licensee shall not at any time post the license on premises
other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (J)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least one
inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the cabinet for Health Services, which
shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during
pregnancy can cause birth defects.
   (K)   No malt beverage distributor shall sell any malt beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except cash or cash equivalent paid at
or before the time of delivery, except as permitted by KRS 244.040. Nor shall
any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for cash
or cash equivalent at time of purchase.
   (L)   (1)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
         (a)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years,
unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (b)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly
or indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last
two years, unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (c)   Is under the age of 18 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under statute; and
         (d)   Within two years prior to the date of his employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
      (2)   Violation of this division shall, subject both employer and
employee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for
revocation of license.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.008 ENFORCEMENT; INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION OF PREMISES
   (A)   All police officers and the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) are authorized and directed to enforce this Chapter for
alleged violations.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) along
with any authorized law enforcement officer, may inspect any premises where
alcoholic or malt beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise
trafficked.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.009 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
by the drink shall participate in and complete the Kentucky Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Server Program (S.T.A.R) or responsible beverage service
training from a program approved by the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 60 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the Kentucky Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control, not less than once every three years thereafter.
   (C)   The manager of the establishment shall be responsible for compliance
with the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City
ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) a record on file on each
employee that shall contain the pertinent training information.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.010 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all requirements of
the city of Crittenden Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.011 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES ALLOWED
   Restaurant and hotel licensees under this chapter are allowed to make
licensed sales of alcoholic beverages on patios and other outdoor locations so
long as such activities are conducted upon the licensed premises and under the
exclusive possession and control of the licensee.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.012 KEG REGISTRATION
   (A)   As used in this section, "keg" is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six (6) or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   All retail licensees selling malt beverages in kegs for consumption
off of the licensed premises shall attach a control label. The label must
display a control number and the name of the licensee, and must be affixed to
the keg at the time of sale. At the time of such sale, the licensee shall
require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for the keg
stating:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the control label;
      (4)   The property address where the keg will be consumed and physically
located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)    The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver's
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
generally accepted and reliable form of identification.
   (D)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other law
enforcement officers.
   (E)    The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the City ABC
Administrator within five (5) working days in all situations when the keg is
not returned or is returned with the control label removed or obliterated.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate
registration forms and to develop and to make those forms available to
licensees.
   (G)    All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (H)    It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale kegs
without the control labels attached and the keg registration form completed. It
also shall be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate the control
label or to fail to have the required notice visible and readily accessible
from the location of the keg.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.013 FEES; APPLICATION
   (A)   (1)   Before an application shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcohol beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements, of KRS Chapter 424.
         (a)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the
individual applicant, or members of a partnership or limited liability company
if the applicant is either, as well as the name of the business and its
address, or if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the
principal office and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and
addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the premises for which the
license is sought, and the type of license for which application is made.
         (b)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper
clipping of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS
424.170, along with a non-refundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      (2)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Kentucky Department of ABC and the city, as amended and supplemented
from time to time.
      (3)   (a)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in
detail such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the Kentucky
Department of ABC and the city, including as follows:
            1.   Name and address;
            2.   Nature of interest;
            3.   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
            4.   Date of birth;
            5.   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
the state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
            6.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other
   license or corporation or partnership holding a license under this chapter;
            7.   Extent of stock ownership; and
            8.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
         (b)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified or
cashier's check, or a postal or express money order for all fees.
      (4)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background
check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the
City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s).
      (5)   All city license applications shall be on the form prescribed by
the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control and shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the licensee;
         (b)   The number of the license;
         (c)   The type of licenses;
         (d)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the
licensed premises;
         (e)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
         (f)   The expiration date of the license; and
         (g)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a
property or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to
law.
      (6)   All licenses approved by the City ABC Administrator or assistant
ABC Administrator(s) and issued by the city shall begin on February 1 of any
year and shall expire on January 31 of the following year.
      (7)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) of the license shall not be construed to be a waiver or
acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to such renewal and shall not
prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee. The renewal application
shall be accompanied by a renewal application fee of $50.00.
      (8)   The yearly license term is February 1 to January 31. Any licenses
issued after February 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is based on
the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period. However, the cost
of any license shall not be less than that for a period of six months.
      (9)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that requires the
revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to refund any portion
of the license fee
   (B)   (1)   There hereby is imposed upon each holder of a license to
manufacture and/or traffic in alcoholic beverages, under any provision of KRS
Chapters 241 through 244, a license fee for the privilege of manufacturing and/
or trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city as follows:
         (a)   Distilled spirit license as set forth in KRS 243.030:
            1.   Distiller's license, per annum $500.00.
            2.   Rectifier's license, per annum $3,000.00.
            3.   Wholesaler's distilled spirits & wine license, per annum
$3,000.00.
            4.   Quota retail package license, per annum $1,000.00.
         (b)   Special temporary license, per event $166.66.
         (c)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum $2,000.00.
         (d)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum $1,000.00.
         (e)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum $300.00.
         (f)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction, license,
per event $200.00.
         (g)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum $300.00.
         (h)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum $2,000.00.
         (i)   Caterer's license, per annum $800.00.
         (j)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum
$1,000.00.
         (k)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
            1.   Brewer's license, per annum $500.00.
            2.   Microbrewery license, per annum $500.00.
            3.   Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum $400.00.
            4.   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum
$200.00.
            5.   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license per annum
$200.00.
            6.   Malt beverage brew-on-premises, per annum $100.00
         (l)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages), per annum $1,200.00.
         (m)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages), per annum $1,200.00.
         (n)   The fee for each of the first five (5) supplemental bar licenses
shall be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no
charge for each supplemental license issued in excess of five (5) to the same
licensee at the same premises.
         (o)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license
may obtain a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00). The holder of a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license
may obtain a non-quota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50).
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator shall
transmit fees upon collection to the City Clerk to be deposited into the
appropriate designated account. City licenses shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator upon receipt of notice from the
ABC Board Administrator of the finality of appeal or protest permitted upon
such license pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.360, and the fact the ABC
Board Administrator has approved the applicant's state application.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.014 REFUND OF LICENSE FEE
   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting said
business, for the full period covered by the license because of any changes
that may hereafter be made in the laws of the State with reference to alcoholic
beverages or other cause outside licensee's control then the city shall refund
to it the proportionate part of the license fee for the period during which it
is prevented from carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient
proof to the City ABC Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the
fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other
wrongdoing by licensee or agent or employee of the licensee.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.015 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC
Administrator after he or she shall be satisfied as to the facts; provided,
however, that, the person applying for said duplicate license shall pay a fee
of $10 for issuing said duplicate.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.016 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION AND HEARING
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
or Assistant ABC Administrator, or a licensee may in lieu of suspension on
approval of the City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator in the
alternative pay in part or all of the days of any suspension period a sum in
accordance with the schedule set forth in Paragraph (E) of this section, if the
licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through
244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board or of the Department of Revenue
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or
taxation of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or
shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal
board, agency or commission, or this chapter now, heretofore or hereafter in
effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation
or taxation of intoxicating liquors of any rules or regulations of the city
heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chapters 241, 243 and
244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted
the violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or
her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause
which the City ABC Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion
deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse
a license if the facts had been known.
   (C)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the additional following
causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If, within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees of the licensee shall have
been convicted of two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapters
241, 243 or 244 or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages
or if within such period, any licensee or any of the clerks, servants, agents
or employees of the license shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of
any misdemeanor directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages, or of one such felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter or acts of congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof; and/or
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
remises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility.
      (6)   Failure to pay when due any tax imposed by the city.
   (D)   In the event a citation for violation of any provision of this section
is issued, notification of the alleged violation shall be served in writing on
the licensee by delivering a copy to the licensee's place of business in the
city and by mailing a copy by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the licensee's
address as shown on the application for a license, giving notice that licensee
may, within seven (7) days of the date of the notification, request an
administrative hearing before the City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC
Administrator to determine the existence of a violation. The hearing shall be a
trial type hearing with all parties having a right to counsel and all witnesses
subject to cross-examination.
      (1)   After the hearing is concluded within thirty (30) business days,
the City ABC Administrator shall issue a findings of fact and decision.
      (2)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator or Assistant
ABC Administrator shall be to the State ABC Board within thirty (30) days from
the date of the City ABC Administrator's decision. See KRS 241.200.
   (E)   In the event of the payment of a monetary penalty in lieu of
suspension, the monetary penalties shall be:
      (1)   Distillers, rectifiers, wineries, and brewers   $1,000.00 per day;
      (2)   Wholesale liquor licensees         $400.00 per day;
      (3)   Distributor beer licensees         $400.00 per day;
      (4)   Retail licensees authorized to sell      $50.00 per day; and
         distilled spirits, wine or beer by the package or drink
      (5)   All remaining licensees         $50.00 per day.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.017 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; HEARING
   (A)   (1)   Within three days after any order of revocation of a license
becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application for
a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section.
      (2)   The licensee shall at once surrender his or her license to the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   If the revoked license is not forthwith surrendered by the
licensee, the City ABC Administrator or the Assistant ABC Administrator shall
immediately request the assistance of any peace officer to take physical
possession of license and return it to the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   When a license has been revoked, the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his or her
stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (C)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
State ABC Board.
   (D)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his or her license.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.018 REFUSAL OF LICENSE
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator may refuse
to issue or renew a license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; and/or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application; and
      (4)   Failure to pay taxes.
   (B)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
State ABC Board.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.019 REVIEW OF LICENSE
   Applicants to whom a license is issued which require certain food sales
percentages shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with
the continuing requirement that the required percentage of the applicant's
business income is earned from the sale of food. This documentation shall be
provided on a schedule to be coordinated with the applicant's monthly
regulatory fee filings, in the event the 50% food requirement is not met during
any particular quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in
determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be
allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort
is demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the 50%
minimum food requirement has been met.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.020 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, and in all instances where the city is
lawfully entitled to do so, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license fee
upon the gross receipts of each and every person or entity licensed by the City
ABC Administrator. The initial regulatory license fee shall be 6% of gross
sales of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fees shall be remitted to the City Clerk,
and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the purpose of fully
reimbursing the city for any estimated costs of any policing, regulatory or
administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city.
The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees or
licenses permitted by law; except that, a credit against a regulatory license
fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any licenses or fees
imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the regulatory license
fee shall accompany the fee returns approved for such use by the City Council.
These returns and payments are due no later than the end of each the month.
   (C)   Failure to pay such monthly remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay monthly remittance by the
due date is 5% of the fee due for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The total
late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the fee due; provided, however,
that, in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
   (F)   Annually, effective July 1 of each year commencing in 2016, the City
Council shall review and establish the regulatory license fee for the ensuing
year so as to conform to the requirements of this section and KRS 243.075.
      (1)   Prior to establishing the regulatory license fee, the Mayor shall
cause the city's auditor to audit the regulatory license fee account to insure
compliance with KRS 243.075, and in conjunction with the City Clerk, to
recommend, based upon the experience of the prior year, a fee rate for the
ensuing year.
      (2)   The auditor shall report his findings to the City Council and in
addition to the regulatory license fee, recommend any action he deems necessary
to insure compliance with KRS 243.075.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.021 CHANGE OF INFORMATION
   (A)   If a license issued by the city is in the name of a corporation, it is
necessary that stock ownership changes in such corporation be reported to the
City ABC Administrator. The City ABC Administrator can therefore, investigate
the person to whom the stock is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word “Change” is construed to include any change
in directors or officers of the corporation, or change in ownership of stock
whereby any person secures 10 % of the outstanding stock. Transfer of more than
10% of the total stock shall require a new license.
   (C)   (1)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer or person securing any interest in alcoholic beverage
license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of the
state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or corporation or partnership holding a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
      (2)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
an amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.022 DORMANCY
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no substantial business is transacted during a
period of 90 days, or repeated shorter periods, shall be considered dormant and
rescinded by the City ABC Administrator. For purposes of the preceding
sentence, "no substantial business" means either no alcohol beverage
transactions during the ninety (90) day period in question, or by using
comparable data, the City ABC Administrator determines in his or her discretion
that the license is being underutilized such that sales for such period(s) are
twenty percent (20%) or more below expected sales for such period(s) and such
deficiency is not caused by circumstances otherwise excused by this section.
Comparable data available to the City ABC Administrator may include, but not be
limited to, sales data from comparable businesses and past sales data of the
licensee in question. Upon a determination of dormancy by the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, or the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain (whether the acquisition is voluntary or involuntary),
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Such
licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement
setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business
prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, for any of the reasons set
forth herein, and, the City ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the
dormancy for such period as the Administrator, in his sole discretion, deems
reasonable, advisable and warranted, with the license continuing to remain in
effect during the license period or until same is transferred to another
premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said
period; provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless
business is conducted thereunder within 12 months from the date of notice to
the City ABC Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal
date but may be for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate
in exercise of his or her discretion.
   (D)   All renewal licenses must be on file with the City ABC Administrator
within 30 days prior to the expiration of the licenses for the preceding
license period or the same shall be canceled, except where the licensee is
unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during the
preceding license prior due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death,
the acquisition or threatened acquisition or these premises by any federal,
state, city or other governmental agency or private corporation, possessing
power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or involuntary,
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease; that said
licensee shall file a written verified statement no less than 20, days from the
expiration date of the license, setting forth these facts, and the City ABC
Administrator is hereby authorized, to extend the time for filing of a renewal
of such license for a reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of
the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a
license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said
license fee shall not be payable until application is made for the transfer of
said license to a new location.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.023 APPROVAL OF PREMISES
   The City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator shall not grant
any alcoholic beverage license or approve a renewal of a license until said
applicant and his or her place of business shall pass any and all other
inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.024 DELINQUENT TAXES OR FEES
   (A)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of the issuing the license; nor shall any license be
granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by
the licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
   (B)   Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes
or any fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to
sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.025 BOOKS, RECORDS REPORTS
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (B)   The original records of the ABC Administrator shall be kept in the
office of the City Clerk. The ABC Administrator shall maintain a copy of those
records in his/her office.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the Department of ABC
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the
Department of ABC required by statute shall be furnished to the City ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.026 COST OF ADDITIONAL POLICE PROTECTION FOR TEMPORARY EVENT
   If it is deemed necessary in the discretion of the City ABC Administrator,
the licensee may be required as a condition of receiving a special temporary
license, to contract directly with the city (by and through the City ABC
Administrator), at the expense of the licensee, to provide adequate security
for the qualifying event.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
§ 63.027 IMPLEMENTATION
   From time to time, the City Council may by resolution or order promulgate
such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such forms and other
documents as, in its discretion, may be necessary for the proper implementation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 248-2016, passed 3-8-16)
CHAPTER 64: PEER TO PEER SHORT TERM HOME RENTALS
Section
   
64.001   Definitions
   
64.002   Annual registration required and fee for registration
   
64.003   Compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations
   
64.004   Duties of a host
   
64.005   Expiration and renewal of permit
   
64.006   Enforcement
§ 64.001   DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “HOST.” Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property,
or any person who is a lessee of residential real property pursuant to a
written agreement for the lease of such real property, who offers a dwelling
unit, or portion thereof, for short-term rental.
   “HOSTING PLATFORM.” An internet-based platform that generally allows an
owner or tenant to advertise the dwelling unit through a website’ and provides
a means for potential transient users to arrange short-term rental and payment
through the hosting platform.
   “SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY (STRP).” A residential dwelling unit that is
used and/or advertised for rent for transient occupancy by guests dwelling
units rented to the same occupant for more than ten (10) consecutive days, bed
and breakfast establishments, boarding houses, hotels, and motels shall not be
considered short-term rental property.
   “TRANSIENT.” A person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a
period of no more than ten consecutive days in a 30 days period.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
§ 64.002 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED AND FEE FOR REGISTRATION
   No person, firm, or corporation shall own or operate a STRP on any premises
within the City of Crittenden, Kentucky, unless the STRP has been registered
annually with the city.
   (A)   Each annual registration for a STRP shall be per the procedure
prescribed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The registration
form, at a minimum, shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number, and email address of the host and
of a person residing or located within twenty-five (25) miles of the STRP that
shall be responsible for addressing any maintenance or safety concerns; and
       (2)   The location of the short-term rental.
   (B)   A floor plan of the residence showing number of bedrooms and location
of smoke alarms, The floor plan can be hand-sketched (number of sleeping rooms
will verified against the tax assessor’s record). Floor plans shall show
details of all levels of the house and any attached structures, location of
windows, doors (interior and exterior), and location of the required smoke
detectors.
   (C)   A statement that the applicant has confirmed that operating the
proposed STRP would not violate any home owners association agreement or
bylaws, condominium agreement, covenants, codes and restrictions or any other
agreement governing and limiting the use of the proposed STRP property.
   (D)   A copy of the owner’s standard rental agreement.
   (E)   A nonrefundable business license fee of $25.00 shall accompany the
registration of a short-term rental.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
§ 64.003 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS
   Each separate short-term rental shall be in compliance with any currently
applicable laws and regulations of the federal, state, or local governments, as
may be amended from time to time including but not limited to, laws or
regulations on nondiscrimination, zoning, building, safety, property
maintenance, health and sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and
other applicable laws.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
§ 64.004 DUTIES OF A HOST
   It shall be the duty of a host to, ensure that:
   (A)   The short-term rental meets the smoke detector requirements set forth
by the responding fire department and that a clearly marked evacuation plan is
posted on the premises.
   (B)   There shall be no more than one contract per short-term rental at a
time.
   (C)   At no time shall more persons reside in the short-term rental than two
times the number of legal bedrooms plus 2.
   (D)   There is no signage on the premises of the short-term rental
advertising or identifying the short-term rental. The occupancy maximum shall
be conspicuously posted Within the STRP unit. Advertising a STRP for more
occupants than allowed by this regulation shall be grounds for revocation of
the permit.
   (E)   There shall be no short-term rentals that are in any structure other
than a dwelling that fully complies with the City of Crittenden Zoning
Ordinance. No short-term rental shall occur in any recreational vehicle,
motorhome, camper, barn, or similar structure or vehicle.
   (F)   There shall be sufficient parking available for the host and guests
and in no event shall the number of vehicles exceed the number of occupants.
All city parking ordinances, including but not limited to no parking in the
street or on the grass, must be strictly adhered to all times with repeat
violators subject to revocation of permit.
   (G)   No food shall be prepared for or served to the transient by the permit
holder.
   (H)   The maximum stay for any guest shall be ten (10) days in a 30 day
period.
   (I)   The permit holder shall be responsible for maintaining proper
insurance coverage on the STRP.
   (J)   The permit holder shall be responsible for collecting and remitting
all applicable transient room tax, occupancy, and/or sales tax required by
state, county and city law.
   (K)   Each short-term rental shall be in compliance with any currently
applicable laws and regulations of the federal, state, or local governments, as
may be amended from time to time including but not limited to, laws or
regulations on nondiscrimination, zoning, building, safety, property
maintenance, health and sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and
ether applicable laws.
   (L)   The name and telephone number of the Host and any emergency contact
shall be conspicuously posted within the short term rental.
   (M)   The hosting of parties, defined as more guests than two (2) times the
number of occupants, shall not be permitted at the STRP.
   (N)   Garbage shall be placed in closed and secured garbage cans and in no
event shall loose bags of garbage be permitted outside the STRP. Garbage cans
must be removed from the curb according to city ordinance.
   (O)   Quiet hours shall be maintained from 10:00 p.m. until 8:00 a.m.
   (P)   All pets shall be leashed or otherwise restrained when outside the
STRP and shall not be left unattended at any time; renters shall ensure that
any pet waste is properly disposed of.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
§ 64.005 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT
   No person, firm, or corporation shall own or operate a short-term rental on
any premises within the city unless the short-term rental has been registered
annually with the city. All STRP permits shall expire on December 31 of each
calendar year and is the responsibility of the owner to renew the permit.
   (A)   Renewal applications shall include at minimum:
      (1)   Payment of renewal fee; and
      (2)   A statement verified by affidavit that:
         (a)   Includes all of the information required in an application under
§ 64.002(C); and
         (b)   The STRP continues to be in full compliance with all applicable
laws, including payment of all applicable taxes.
   (B)   STRP permit shall not be transferred or assigned to another
individual, person, entity, or address, nor shall the permit authorize any
person, other than the person named therein, to operate a STRP on the property.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
§ 64.006 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   Strict liability will apply to any property owner found to be in
violation of this or other applicable ordinance.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint regarding a STRP permit, the City Code
Enforcement Officer and/or other such person as designated by the Mayor or City
Council shall notify the permit holder in writing or by e-mail of such
complaint and follow the process as outlined in the City of Crittenden’s
Nuisance Ordinance.
   (C)   If the property is subject to four (4) or more substantiated civil
and/or criminal complaints, the Mayor or City Council may revoke the approval
and rescind the permit. In the event a permit is revoked, the offending Host
shall not be eligible to re-apply for a permit for a period of one year from
the date of revocation.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Code Enforcement
Officer, other such person, is authorized to pursue remedial civil actions for
violations of this and/or other applicable ordinances by civil complaint or
petition for injunctive relief, declaration of rights or other appropriate
proceedings filed in the Grant County, Kentucky Circuit Court.
(Ord. 278-2019, passed 10-1-19)
TITLE 7: HOUSING AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 70   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 71   TRAILER COURTS
   
CHAPTER 72   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
CHAPTER 73   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 70: BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
70.001   Kentucky Building Code adopted by reference
ARTICLE II. BUILDING PERMITS
Division 1. General Provisions
   
70.100   Permit required
   
70.101   Residential fees
   
70.102   Inspection
   
70.103   Building Inspector
   
70.104   Certificate of occupancy
Division 2. Commercial and Industrial Construction
   
70.150   Definitions
   
70.151   Commercial fee schedule
   
70.152   Commercial permit fee schedule
   
70.153   Automatic sprinkler review fees
ARTICLE III. ELECTRICAL WIRING INSTALLATIONS
   
70.200   Application
   
70.201   Minimum Standards
   
70.202   Requirements and duties of city electrical inspector(s)
   
70.203   Inspection procedure
   
70.204   Supplying current to installation before inspection and approval
prohibited
   
70.205   Fees
   70.206   Rights of inspector(s) upon receipt of complaint
   
70.207   Liability for damages
ARTICLE IV. ANTI-MONOTONY CODE
   
70.300   General provisions
   
70.301   Exceptions
   
70.302   Compliance to be demonstrated
   
70.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the 1980 Kentucky Building Code as
promulgated in 815 KAR 7:105 by the Board of Housing, Building and Construction
together with all subsequent modifications, amendments and revisions, of which
a copy is filed in the City Building, Crittenden, Kentucky; and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set in length herein and from and
after the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and structures
therein contained within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The Kentucky Building Code adopted herein shall be available for
public inspection at the City Building, Crittenden, Kentucky, during normal
hours in which the City Building is open.
(Ord. 3-82, passed 5-4-82)
ARTICLE II. BUILDING PERMITS
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 70.100 PERMIT REQUIRED
   (A)   Any person or persons planning to construct, remodel, or demolish a
building of any kind or description, commercial, residential, industrial, barn,
warehouse, garage, privy, or any other building, shall before the commencement
of construction, remodeling or demolishing, appear before the Building
Inspector and for the purpose of obtaining a permit for such construction,
remodeling or demolishing, and before said permit shall be issued the applicant
shall satisfy the Inspector as to compliance with the Building Code.
   (B)   Upon application of issuance of a demolition permit, a fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) shall be paid and the applicant and owner of the property or
premises shall, in addition to the aforesaid fee, be required prior to
undertaking any action on or upon such property or premises to post a bond,
with surety, in the penal sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) to insure
to the benefit of the city to insure and assure the city of the safe and
workmanlike performance of the action together with the removal and cleanup of
the property, premises and site upon completion of the said demolition. Such
bond with surety shall be obtained or so procured through and from an insurance
company or bonding company duly licensed and authorized to do business and
issue any such bond within the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 7-81, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 117-1997, passed 4-1-97)
§ 70.101 RESIDENTIAL FEES
   The applicant shall pay the city a fee for the issuing of the permit
required pursuant to §
70.100 according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Residential, Industrial and Commercial. The Building Inspector shall
measure the square footage of a house, building, garage or detached garage
around the perimeter of the foundation for said structure. The square footage
of the structure shall be multiplied by forty-five dollars ($45.00) per square
foot to determine the value of the structure. The value of the structure shall
determine the fee for the permit required per the chart set forth below.
Estimated Construction Costs Permit and Inspection Fee
Estimated Construction Costs       Permit and Inspection Fee
$.00                 $999.99       $20.00
$1,000.00            $4,999.99     $30.00
$5,000.00            $9,999.99     $40.00
$10,000.00           $14,999.00    $60.00
$15,000.00           $29,999.99    $85.00
$30,000.00           $49,999.99    $150.00
$50,000.00           $74,999.99    $200.00
$75,000.00           $99,999.99    $250.00
$100,000.00          $149,999.99   $300.00
$150,000.00          $199,999.99   $400.00
$200,000.00          $249,999.99   $500.00
$250,000.00          $349,999.99   $600.00
$350,000.00          $499,999.99   $800.00
$500,000.00          $749,999.99   $1,000.00
$750,000.00          $999,999.99   $1,500.00
$1,000,000.00        $1,999,999.99 $2,500.00
$2,000,000.00        $2,999,999.99 $3,500.00
                                   $3,500.00 plus $1,000.00 per each one
$3,000,000.00 and up               million dollar increment or part thereof of
                                   the estimated cost of construction.
 
   (B)   Demolition: There shall be a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee for a
permit. The area demolished must be cleaned up as to not create a nuisance as
defined in
Chapter 50. If a nuisance is created the provisions of
Chapter 50 shall be applied.
   (C)   All other buildings and improvements. The Building Inspector shall
measure the square footage of the improvement or building. The square footage
of the improvement or building shall be multiplied by forty-five dollars
($45.00) per square foot, and the permit costs shall be determined by the chart
set out above under Section (A).
(Ord. 7-81, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 108-1996, passed 7-9-96)
§ 70.102 INSPECTION
   The applicant shall be subject to inspection during construction,
remodeling, or demolishing by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 7-81, passed 6-2-81)
§ 70.103 BUILDING INSPECTOR
   The Building Inspector shall be an employee of Grant County.
§ 70.104 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
   Prior to anyone residing in a new structure, they shall be required to
obtain a Certificate of Occupancy from the Building Inspector certifying the
structure has been built properly and the structure is ready for safe
occupancy. The permit cost is thirty dollars ($30.00) for each Certificate of
Occupancy.
(Ord. 108-1996, passed 7-9-96)
Division 2. Commercial and Industrial Construction
§ 70.150 DEFINITIONS
   "APPLICANT." The owner, or the individual or business, authorized by the
owner to obtain the necessary construction permits.
   "BUILDING INSPECTOR." The duly appointed official and his/her assistants
selected by the city to issue Commercial/Industrial Building Permits and to
collect fees for the issuance of same.
   "CONSTRUCTION." Any construction of any commercial or industrial buildings
or structures, whether it is a new construction or additions to existing
structures.
   "PERMIT FEES." The fees required to be paid to the Building Inspector for
Commercial/Industrial Building Permits pursuant to this division.
(Ord. 132-1998, passed 3-9-99)
§ 70.151 COMMERCIAL FEE SCHEDULE
   New Construction, Alterations and Repairs. Plan review fees for new
construction, alterations and repairs shall be calculated during the plan
review process. Minimum fee for review of plans under this section shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) minimum due and payable at time of application.
   Change in Use. Plan review fees for existing buildings in which the use
group or occupancy type is changed shall be calculated by using the total
square footage of the entire building or structure under the new occupancy type
as determined by the outside dimensions. Minimum fee for review of plans shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00) due and payable at time of application.
Automatic Sprinkler Review Fees.
Sprinkler Heads Plan Review Fee
1-10            Determined in Plan Review
11-200          $100.00
201- 300        $125.00
301-400         $150.00
401-750         $175.00
Over 750        $175.00 plus 20 cents per head over 750
Limited Area Sprinkler Systems.
1 head          Determined in Plan Review
Over 1 head     $100.00
 
   Fire Detection System Review Fee. Zero (0) to twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet in
excess of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   Standpipe Plan Review Fee. One hundred dollars ($100.00) (combination
standpipe and riser plans will be reviewed under automatic sprinkler review fee
schedule).
   Carbon Dioxide Suppression System Review Fee. One (1) to two hundred (200)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over two hundred (200)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus ten (10) cents per
pound in excess of two hundred (200) pounds.
   Halon Suppression System Review Fee. Up to thirty-five (35) pounds of agent
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over thirty-five (35) pounds shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus twenty (20) cents per pound over thirty-five
(35) pounds.
   Foam Suppression System Review Fee. One dollar ($1.00) per gallon of foam
concentrate. The fee for review of plans shall not be less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   Commercial Range Hood Review Fee. One hundred dollars ($100.00) per hood.
   Dry Chemical Systems Review Fee (Except Range Hoods). One (1) to thirty (30)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over thirty (30) pounds
of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus thirty-five (35) cents per
pound in excess of thirty (30) pounds.
   Flammable, Combustible Liquids or Gases and Hazardous Materials Plan Review
Fee. Refer to State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 132-1998, passed 3-9-99)
§ 70.152 COMMERCIAL PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
Estimated Construction Cost Permit/Inspection Fee
Estimated Construction Cost Permit/Inspection Fee
$0.00        - $29,999.99   Minimum Fee $100.00
30,000.00    - 49,999.99    150.00
50,000.00    - 74,999.99    200.00
75,000.00    - 99,999.99    250.00
100,000.00   - 149,999.99   300.00
150,000.00   - 199,999.99   400.00
200,000.00   - 249,999.99   500.00
250,000.00   - 349,999.99   600.00
350,000.00   - 499,999.99   800.00
500,000.00   - 749,999.99   1,000.00
750,000.00   - 999,999.99   1,500.00
1,000,000.00 - 1,999,999.99 2,500.00
2,000,000.00 - 2,999,999.99 3,500.00
3,000,000.00 - 3,999,999.99 4,500.00
4,000,000.00 - 4,999,999.99 5,500.00
5,000,000.00 - 5,999,999.99 6,500.00
 
Plus one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each additional million dollars of
construction.
 
Demolition Permit $25.00
 
Any project started before obtaining a permit shall be charged double.
(Ord. 132-1998, passed 3-9-99)
§ 70.153 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER REVIEW FEES
   Change in Use. Plan review fees for existing buildings in which the use
group or occupancy type is changed shall be calculated by using the total
square footage of the entire building or structure under the new occupancy type
as determined by the outside dimensions. Minimum fee for review of plans shall
be seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
   Alterations and Repairs. Plan review fees for alterations and repairs shall
be calculated by multiplying the cost for repairs by .002. Minimum fee for
review of plans under this section shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
 
Sprinkler Heads Plan Review Fee
4-200           $100.00
201-300         125.00
301-400         150.00
401-750         175.00
Over 750        175.00 plus 20 cents per head over 750
 
   Fire Detection System Review Fee. Zero (0) to twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet in
excess of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   Standpipe Plan Review Fee. One hundred dollars ($100.00) (combination
standpipe and rise plans will be reviewed under automatic sprinkler review fee
schedule).
   Carbon Dioxide Suppression System Review Fee. One (1) to two hundred (200)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over two hundred (200)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus ten cents ($.10)
per pound in excess of two hundred (200) pounds.
   Halon Suppression System Review Fee. Up to thirty-five (35) pounds of agent
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over thirty-five (35) pounds shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus twenty cents ($.20) per pound over thirty-
five (35) pounds.
   Foam Suppression System Review Fee. One dollar ($1.00) per gallon of foam
concentrate. The fee for review of plans shall not be less then seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   Commercial Range Hood Review Fee. One hundred dollars ($100.00) per hood.
   Dry Chemical Systems Review Fee (except range hoods). One (1) to thirty (30)
pounds of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); over thirty (30) pounds
of agent shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus thirty-five cents ($.35)
per pound in excess of thirty (30) pounds.
   Flammable, Combustible Liquids or Gases and Hazardous Materials Plan Review
Fee. Refer to State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 132-1998, passed 3-9-99)
ARTICLE III. ELECTRICAL WIRING INSTALLATIONS
§ 70.200 APPLICATION
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall apply to any electrical
conductors installed within or on public and private buildings and other
premises, including yards, athletic fields, carnival and parking lots and
industrial substations; to the conductors that connect the installations to
supply of electricity, and other outside conductors adjacent to the premises;
also to electrical service to mobile homes and recreational vehicles.
   (B)   The provisions of this article do no apply to:
      (1)   Installations in watercraft, railway rolling stock, aircraft or
automotive vehicles (except mobile homes and recreational vehicles).
      (2)   Installation of railways for generation, transportation,
transmission or distribution of power used exclusively for operations of
rolling stock or installations used exclusively for signaling and
communications purposes.
      (3)   Installation of communication equipment under exclusive control of
communication utilities located outdoors or in building spaces used exclusively
for such installations.
      (4)   Installations under the exclusive control of electric utilities for
the purpose of communication, metering or for the generation, control,
transformation, transmission and distribution of electric energy located in
buildings used exclusively by utilities for such purposes or located outdoors
on property owned or leased by the utility or on public highways, streets,
road, etc., or outdoors by established rights on private property.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.201 MINIMUM STANDARDS
   (A)   All installations of electric equipment shall be reasonably safe to
persons and property and in conformity with the provisions of this article and
all orders, rules, and/or regulations issued by authority thereof.
   (B)   All electrical wiring shall be in full compliance with the National
Electrical Code, as listed in the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code and the
Kentucky Building Code. Failure to comply with the foregoing shall be prima
facie evidence of violations of this article.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.202 REQUIREMENTS AND DUTIES OF CITY ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR(S)
   (A)   The city shall appoint City Electrical Inspector(s) who shall have the
duty of performing the inspections for compliance with the standards adopted
herein, issuing certificates of approval, and enforcing these provisions in any
manner as required herein.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed to act as City Electrical Inspector to
enforce the provisions of this article who has not been certified by the
Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction. A corporation may
be appointed City Electrical Inspector(s). All personal inspections approvals
and enforcement of this article by an person who is so certified and who is
also an agency or employee of such corporate inspector shall be deemed to be
the acts of and have the same validity and effect as if such duties were
performed by such corporate City Electrical Inspector(s).
   (C)   The designation of City Electrical Inspector to provide electrical
inspection services, under this article, is subject to withdrawal and
cancellation upon three (3) months advance notice by the city.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.203 INSPECTION PROCEDURE
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, or corporation installing
electrical conductors, wiring or equipment to notify the electrical inspector
(s) when the work is ready for rough inspection and when it is ready for final
inspection, and in each case, the inspector(s) shall inspect the work within a
reasonable time. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
conceal or cover any such electrical installation until after it has been
reported to, inspected by and approved by the inspector(s).
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, or governmental agency shall
install, alter or replace any electrical wiring in any industrial, commercial,
public, or residential building unless the City Electrical Inspector(s) has
been notified at least six (6) days prior to such installation, alteration or
replacement and the plans for such work shall conform to the National
Electrical Code.
   (C)   Where the inspector(s) finds than an installation conforms with this
article, he shall issue to the party making the installation a written approval
of either rough or final installation. Approval of final installation shall be
promptly mailed to the supplier of electrical service, and no installation
shall be connected to or energized by a power company until after the
installation has received the final written approval of the inspector(s).
   (D)   No temporary service shall be connected to, or installed in, any
structure or electrical installation; however, construction power service
(which is temporary in nature) may be authorized for use in conjunction with
and during periods of construction, remodeling or demolition of such
structures; provided that such construction power service shall at all times,
be of sufficient ampacity to safely provide all electric power used in such
structure or installation until the final inspection and approval of the
structure or installation according to this article.
   (E)   Where the inspector(s) finds any electrical installation not in
compliance with the minimum standards adopted under this article, the inspector
(s) may stop work on such installation until the condition is corrected. The
inspector(s) may inspect and stop work hereunder regardless of whether he has
received a request to make inspections or whether he has previously issued a
final approval.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.204 SUPPLYING CURRENT TO INSTALLATION BEFORE INSPECTION AND APPROVAL
PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including an
electric utility company, to connect with or furnish current to any electrical
installation which has not been inspected and approved by the City Electrical
Inspector(s).
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.205 FEES
   (A)   The electrical inspector(s) shall have the right to charge a
reasonable fee, which shall be full and complete compensation for services
rendered by it in the making of said inspection, which fee shall also include
the rendering of written reports. The fee shall be paid by the contractor or
person or persons installing, altering replacing or repairing said electrical
wiring or equipment, and no part thereof shall be paid by the city. The fees to
be charged and paid for the inspections, hereinafter provided for, shall be in
accordance with the recognized scale of fees charged for similar work and
inspections by the electrical inspector(s) and shall not be in excess thereof.
Specifically, the fees shall be charged and paid according to the schedule
attached hereto marked "Fees as of ________________." These fees shall be paid
before the inspector issues a final written approval to the utility company
which authorizes it to provide electrical service to the structure or
installation.
   (B)   For each reinspection of any overhead, underground or interior wiring
demanded by the installing party or owner and for any extra inspection made as
a result to the installing party's or owner's inaccurate or incorrect
information, failure to make reports or faulty construction, a charge of $
________ per hour shall be made by the City Electrical Inspector(s), payable to
the electrical inspector(s) for time consumed in making such inspections.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
§ 70.207 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
   This article shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
electric equipment for damages to persons or property caused by a defect
therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such liability by reason of
the inspection, reinspection or other examination authorized herein, or by
reason of the approval issued as herein provided, or by reason of the approval
or disapproval of any equipment authorized herein.
(Ord. 102-195, passed 11-7-95)
ARTICLE IV. ANTI-MONOTONY CODE
§ 70.300 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction within the
city following the effective date of this article for any new single – family
detached dwelling unit, any two – family detached dwelling unit, or any duplex-
type detached dwelling unit which is similar in appearance to any dwelling unit
on the same street which is within two (2) lots distance of it, nor in cul-de-
sac turnarounds which is similar in appearance to any other dwelling unit. For
the purpose of this article and regulation, "similar in appearance" shall mean
a dwelling which is identical, or nearly identical, to another in any four (4)
of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Roof type (gable, hip, mansard, combination);
      (2)   Roof height;
      (3)   Approximate dimensions (height and length) of the front wall
closest to the front wall closest to the front wall closest to the front lot
line;
      (4)   Shape of the front evaluation silhouette;
      (5)   Relative locations and sizes of windows in the front door
elevation;
      (6)   Relative locations and dimensions of garage door(s), if included on
the front elevation;
      (7)   Type(s) of siding (e.g. brick veneer, lapped horizontal siding,
half-timber, board and batten, shakes, etc.) on the front elevation.
   (B)   If adjacent lots as defined in this article and this regulation
contain different housing styles as herein described, the previously delineated
similarity standards do not apply. Housing style is one and of itself a
significant enough characteristic to constitute dissimilarity. Housing style
shall consist of the six (6) categories: Ranches, bi-level, tri-level, one and
a half story, two story and three story.
   (C)   If the Building Inspector/Codes Enforcement Officer of the city or a
person acting in that capacity, finds that a dwelling for which a building
permit is being requested is similar in appearance to a dwelling for which a
permit had been previously issued within two (2) lots distance and facing the
same street, the building officer shall deny the permit requested for non-
compliance with this article and regulations.
   (D)   An applicant for a building permit which had been denied a building
permit based upon the provisions of this article and regulations may:
      (1)   Alter the dwelling plans so that the proposed dwelling is no longer
similar to another adjacent dwelling according to the criteria specified
herein; or
      (2)   Appeal the decision to the Crittenden Board of Zoning Adjustments.
(Ord. 128-1998, passed 7-16-98)
§ 70.301 EXCEPTIONS
   (A)   This regulation and article shall not apply to dwellings for which
permits have been approved before the effective date of this article, including
dwellings that are being remodeled, reconstructed or replaced after damage by
fire, windstorm or other casualty.
   (B)   Subdivision or tract developments already in progress where such
enforcement of regulations would substantially alter the uniform character of
the subdivision or tract development.
   (C)   Dwellings not within subdivisions or tract developments.
   (D)   Cases where the applicant for a permit could not expect to anticipate
the design of a neighboring dwelling for which a permit has already been
issued, but not under construction.
   (E)   Apartment complexes, condominiums, residential planned unit
developments in which similarity of architectural form and style among
dwellings is integral to the success of a unified plan in which the high
quality of building materials, building plan and site plan details overcome the
presumed deficiencies of similarity. In such cases, the developer shall
request, the Board of Zoning Adjustments may grant an exception to this article
as a condition of a planning unit development.
(Ord. 128-1998, passed 7-16-98)
§ 70.302 COMPLIANCE TO BE DEMONSTRATED
   In any appeal of the interpretation of this article and regulation by the
building officer of the Board of Zoning Adjustments, the applicant for a permit
shall present evidence sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this article,
such a architectural drawings, material specifications and similar items.
(Ord. 128-1998, passed 7-16-98)
§ 70.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §§
70.100-
70.104 shall pay double the permit cost.
(Ord. 7-81, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 108-1996, passed 7-9-96)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
70.150-
70.153 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day the violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 132-1998, passed 3-9-99)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of
Article III of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense,
together with the costs of prosecution and/or imprisonment for not more than
five (5) days and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 102-1995, passed 11-7-95)
CHAPTER 71: TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
71.001   Deposit to be collected by operators of trailer courts
   
71.002   Information to be furnished to tax collector
   
71.999   Penalty
§ 71.001 DEPOSIT TO BE COLLECTED BY OPERATORS OF TRAILER COURTS
   Any person, firm, or corporation, who rents space for occupancy of mobile
homes or trailers within the city limits shall prior to permitting the mobile
homes or trailers to be established or placed upon their property, collect from
each person, firm or corporation, who owns, keeps or maintains the mobile home
or trailer, the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), as a deposit for the
payment of any city taxes or utilities that are or may become due the city by
the owner of the mobile home or trailer, the same to be held by the operator of
the mobile home park as agent for the city or utility company for the payment
of the taxes or utilities at such time as occupant or owner of said mobile home
or trailer shall leave and show proof of having satisfied all of the claims.
(Ord. 2-70, passed 1-5-70)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO TAX COLLECTOR
   All owners or operators of mobile home or trailer parks within the city
shall on or before January 15, furnish the Tax Collector of Grant County,
Kentucky with the names of the owners and the description of the mobile home or
trailer situated within his mobile home or trailer park as of January 1 of each
year.
(Ord. 2-70, passed 1-5-70)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY
   Any mobile home or trailer park owner or operator who fails to carry out the
terms and requirements of this chapter may be denied license to operate within
the city and shall be responsible for any taxes or utilities unpaid by said
occupant up to the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per occupant, who fails
to pay taxes or utilities as required.
(Ord. 2-70, passed 1-5-70)
CHAPTER 72: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
72.001   Open burning; permit required
ARTICLE II. FIREWORKS
   
72.100   Definitions; legality of items
   
72.101   Sale or use prohibited; exceptions
   
72.102   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
72.103   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
72.104   Exempted sales and uses
   
72.105   Destruction of fireworks
 
   
72.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 OPEN BURNING; PERMIT REQUIRED
   No person, or persons, shall be permitted to burn trash, lumber, leaves,
straw, or any combustible material of any kind, or open fire of any kind, in
any street, alley, or other area within the city limits, except by special
permission of the Fire Chief, when such burning shall be done in a manner
approved by him and under such proper safeguard as he may direct.
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
72.999
ARTICLE II. FIREWORKS
§ 72.100 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or clearly requires a
different meaning.
   “COMMON FIREWORKS.” Fireworks suitable for use by the public and designed
primarily to produce visible effects by combustion and must comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Products Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated by this
article. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing fifty (50) milligrams or
less of explosive composition, and aerial devices containing one hundred thirty
(130) milligrams or less of explosive composition. “COMMON FIREWORKS” are
classified as Class C explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparking devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler. Stick or wire coated with pyrotechnic
composition that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. Total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed one hundred (100) grams per item. Those devices
containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five (5) grams of
pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no magnesium and
which contain less than one hundred (100) grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube not more than three-
fourths (3/4) inch (19 millimeters) inside diameter, containing up to seventy-
five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored
sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain).
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
fifty (50) grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of
a cylindrical fountain.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to one
hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is
produced. May be spike, base, or hand-held.
         (e)   Wheel. Pyrotechnic device attached to a post or tree by means of
a nail or string. Each wheel may contain up to six (6) driver units: tubes not
exceeding one-half (1/2) inch (12.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing
up to sixty (60) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel
revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling
effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device similar to a wheel in design and
effect and placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is
produced by the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube filled with pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. This device does not
have a fuse for ignition. The paper at one (1) end of the tube is ignited to
make the device function.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rocket. Tube not exceeding one-half (1/2) inch (12.5
millimeters) inside diameter that may contain up to twenty (20) grams of
pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden stick for guidance and
stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst of color or noise or
both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube not more than one-half (1/2)
inch, (12.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing up to twenty (20) grams
of pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube not exceeding
three- eighths (3/8) inch, (9.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing up
to twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten (10)
stars (pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color)
are individually expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube up to two and one
half (2 ½) inches (63.5 millimeters) inside diameter attached to a wood or
plastic base and containing up to forty (40) grams of pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition, stars, firecrackers, or other devices are propelled into the
air. The tube remains on the ground.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapper or cardboard tube
containing not more than fifty (50) milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon
ignition, noise and a flash or light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed fifty (50)
milligrams.
      (4)   Combination items. Firework devices containing combinations of two
(2) or more of the effects described in categories (1), (2), and (3) above.
(KRS 227.702)
   “FIREWORKS.” Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
which meets the definition of “COMMON” or “SPECIAL FIREWORKS” as set forth in
the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DIT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motor designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   “NOVELTIES” and “TRICK NOISEMAKERS.” Those items listed below and which are
not classified as “COMMON FIREWORKS” by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed one hundred (100) grams of composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five (5)
grams per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive composition that is friction
sensitive. A stick protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling
paper streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one (1) of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding fifty (50) milligrams may also be used to produce a
small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   “SPECIAL FIREWORKS.” Large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible
or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term
includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two (2)
grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more
than forty (40) grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces
which exceed the limits for classification as “COMMON FIREWORKS”. “SPECIAL
FIREWORKS” are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
§ 72.101 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or offer for
sale, either wholesale or retail, any fireworks or similar articles of any kind
or descriptions within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to explode, fire or use
in any way any fireworks or similar articles of any kind or description within
the city limits.
(Ord. 214-56, passed 12-10-56)
   (C)   Exceptions to the provisions of subsections (A) and (B) are as
follows:
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or Mayor, may grant permits for
supervised public displays of fireworks by municipalities, fair associations,
amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals. Every
display shall be handled by a competent operator to be approved by the public
official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of such character, and so
located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the official, after proper
inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person. Permits
shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least fifteen (15) days in
advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this subsection shall be
transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public display of fireworks”
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (2)   The sale, at wholesale, of any fireworks for supervised displays by
any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in accordance with
regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, if the sale is
to the person holding a display permit as outlined in subsection (A) of this
section. The permit holder shall present the permit along with other verifiable
identification at the time of sale.
      (3)   The sale, at wholesale, of any kind of fireworks by any resident
manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, provided the fireworks are
intended for shipment directly out of state in accordance with regulations of
the U.S. Department of Transportation.
      (4)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (5)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
      (6)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a shown or theater
or for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
      (7)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
      (8)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
      (9)   The sale of common fireworks as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
72.999
§ 72.102 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE
   (A)   Except as provided in §
72.101, the common fireworks defined as ground and hand-held sparking devices
may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only
if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person or business intending to sell common fireworks shall
register annually with the State Fire Marshal’s office in accordance with KRS
227.715, and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at
the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have a working
fire extinguisher at the site, in compliance with NFPA Pamphlet 10.
   (D)   No common fireworks item shall be offered for sale if it has, as part
of its device, any wings, fins, or other mechanism designed to cause the device
to fly, or if it carries a cautionary label which includes, in its description,
any of the following terms: explosive, emits flaming pellets, flaming balls,
firecracker, report, or rocket.
   (E)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any common
fireworks listed in §
72.100 to any person under sixteen (16) years of age.
(KRS 227.715(3) - (6))
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation see, §
72.999
§ 72.103 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT
   No permit shall be issued under §
72.101 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). However, the
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if, in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation see, §
72.999
§ 72.104 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES
   Nothing in this article shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 72.105 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS
   The State Fire Marshal shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be removed at
the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or
exposed for sale, stored, or held in violation of this article. All fireworks
held, possessed, or used in violation of this article shall be destroyed as
contraband.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 72.999 PENALTY
   Any person or persons who violate any provisions of §
72.001 shall upon conviction, be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
CHAPTER 73: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
ARTICLE I. BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL
   
73.001   Findings; declaration of policy
   
73.002   Purposes
   
73.003   Applicability
   
73.004   Responsibility of owner, operator and occupants
   
73.005   Standards
   
73.006   Word usage
   
73.007   Maintenance of exterior of the premises
   
73.008   Appearance of exterior of the premises and window display areas
   
73.009   Windows and window display areas
   
73.010   Repair and painting of exteriors of buildings
   
73.011   Awnings and marquees
   
73.012   Window displays in business districts
   
73.013   Utilities and facilities
   
73.014   Duties and responsibilities of occupants
   
73.015   Administration
   
73.016   Lien of municipality
   
73.017   Certificate of necessity
   
73.018   Service, oaths, rules and regulations
   
73.019   Nonapplicability
   
73.020   Service of orders
ARTICLE II. RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS AND VACANT LAND
   
73.030   Findings
   
73.031   Purpose
   
73.032   Compliance
   
73.033   Prevailing standards
   
73.034   Definition
   
73.035   Condition of structure
   
73.036   Orders of Code Enforcement Officer
   
73.037   Vacant and/or occupied land
   
73.038   Responsibility of owner
   
73.039   Designation as Code Enforcement Officer
   
73.040   Inspections
   
73.041   Determinations of Code Enforcement Officer
   
73.042   Filing of petition
   
73.043   Enforcement
   
73.044   Costs and liability
   
73.045   Powers and authority of Code Enforcement Officer
   
73.046   Appeals
 
   
73.999   Penalty
_____________
Cross reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see §
22.202
ARTICLE I. BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL
§ 73.001 FINDINGS; DECLARATION OF POLICY
   It is hereby found and declared that there exist in the City of Crittenden
premises of the aforesaid category which are, or may become, unfit for human
habitation or occupancy or use, due to dilapidation, defects increasing the
hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or
sanitation facilities, or due to other conditions rendering such premises or
part thereof unsafe or unsanitary or dangerous or detrimental to the health or
safety or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city and
persons upon or having access to the premises. It is further found and declared
that by reason of lack of maintenance and progressive deterioration, the
condition of certain premises has the further effect of creating blighting
conditions and initiating slums and that, if the same are not curtailed and
removed, the aforesaid conditions will grow and spread and will necessitate in
time the expenditure of large amounts of public funds to correct and eliminate
the same and that, by reason of timely regulations and restrictions as herein
contained, the growth of blight conditions may be prevented and neighborhood
and property values thereby maintained, the desirability and amenities of
premises and neighborhood enhanced and the public health, safety and welfare
protected and fostered.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-21-18)
§ 73.002 PURPOSES
   The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare by establishing minimum standards governing the maintenance, appearance
and condition of premises situated in the city, used or intended to be used or
designed to be used, in whole or in part, for commercial, business, industrial
or any other nonresidential occupancy; to establish minimum standards governing
utilities, facilities and other physical components and conditions essential to
make such premises fit for human habitation, occupancy and use; to fix certain
responsibilities and duties upon owners and operators and distinct and separate
responsibilities and duties upon occupants; to prevent blighting conditions and
deterioration of property values; to authorize and establish procedures for the
inspection of such premises; to fix penalties for the violations of this
article; to provide for the right of access across adjoining premises to permit
repairs; and to provide for the repair, demolition or vacation of premises
unfit for human habitation or occupancy or use. This article is hereby declared
to be remedial and essential for the public interest and it is intended that
this article be liberally construed to effectuate the purpose as stated herein.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-21-18)
§ 73.003 APPLICABILITY
   (A)   Buildings affected by this article. Each and every building and the
premises on which it is situated in the city, used or intended to be used or
designed to be used, in whole or in part, for commercial, business, industrial
or any other nonresidential occupancy shall comply with the provisions of this
article, whether or not any such building shall have been constructed, altered
or repaired before or after the enactment of this article and irrespective of
any permits or licenses which shall have been issued for the use or occupancy
of any such building or premises for the construction, alteration or repair of
any such building or for the installation or repair of equipment or facilities
therein or thereon prior to the effective date of this article. This article
establishes minimum standards for the initial and continued occupancy and use
of all such buildings and premises and does not replace, modify or lessen
standards otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use
of such buildings and premises, equipment or facilities contained therein or
thereon, except as provided in division (B) below. Where there is mixed
occupancy of such buildings and premises, the residential and nonresidential
uses thereof shall be regulated by and be subject to the applicable provisions
of this article.
   (B)   Higher standards to prevail in case of conflict with other ordinances
or laws. In any case where the provisions of this article impose a higher
standard than set forth in any other ordinance of the City of Crittenden or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky applicable thereto, then the standards, as set forth
herein, shall prevail, but if the provisions of this article impose a lesser
standard than such other ordinance of the City of Crittenden or law of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, then the higher standard contained in such other
ordinance or law shall prevail.
   (C)   Issuance and renewal of other permits and licenses. After the date of
enactment hereof, all licenses and permits relating to such buildings and
premises, which may be issued or renewed pursuant to any other ordinance of the
city, may be issued or renewed only upon compliance with this article as well
as compliance with the ordinances under which such licenses and permits may be
granted or renewed.
   (D)   Enforcement and compliance with other ordinances. Compliance with this
article shall not constitute a defense against the violation of any provisions
of any other ordinance of the city applicable to any building or premises, nor
shall compliance with any provision of this article relieve any owner, operator
or occupant from complying with any such other provision nor relieve any
official of the city from enforcing any such other provision.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.004 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, OPERATOR AND OCCUPANTS
   (A)   Owner, operators, and occupants shall have all the duties and
responsibilities prescribed herein and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto; and no owner, operator or occupant shall be relieved from such duties
or responsibilities nor be entitled to defend against any charge of violation
thereof by reason of the fact that the other of them is also responsible
therefor and in violation thereof.
   (B)   Contract not to alter responsibilities. Unless expressly provided to
the contrary, the respective duties and responsibilities imposed hereunder on
the owner, operator and occupant shall not be altered or affected by any
agreement or contract to which one (1) or more of them is or are a party or
parties.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.005 STANDARDS
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall constitute the standards to guide
the Code Enforcement Officer and his agents in determining the fitness of
premises for human habitation, use and occupancy and in determining whether
premises are being maintained in such condition as to not constitute a
blighting effect upon neighboring properties nor an element leading to a
progressive deterioration and downgrading of neighboring properties with an
accompanying diminution of property values.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter the following definitions
shal apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      "BATHROOM." Any enclosed space which contains one (1) or more of the
following: bathtub, shower, water closet, lavatory, water closet compartment,
washbowl, sink or fixtures serving similar purposes.
      "BUILDING." Any building or structure, or part thereof, whether used for
human habitation or otherwise, and includes any outbuildings and appurtenances
belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
      "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." The person or persons who are authorized by
this article to exercise powers prescribed by this article.
      "DETERIORATION." The condition of a building, or part thereof,
characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting or
other evidence of physical decay, neglect, lack of maintenance or excessive
wear.
      "DILAPIDATION." Falling out of repair or decayed.
      "EXPOSED TO PUBLIC VIEW." Any premises, or part thereof, which may be
lawfully viewed by the public, or any member thereof, from a sidewalk, street,
alleyway, parking lot or from any adjoining or neighborhood premises.
      "EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES."
         (a)   Any part of the premises not occupied by any building thereon,
to include any portion of said premises furnished for the parking of vehicles;
         (b)   Any open space on the outside of any building: or
         (c)   Any part of any building which is exposed to the elements.
      "EXTERMINATION." The control and elimination of insects, rodents and
vermin by eliminating their harborage places, or by removing or making
inaccessible material that may serve as their food, or by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping or any other approved means of pest elimination.
      "GARBAGE." The animal and vegetable and other organic waste resulting
from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other
products.
      "INFESTATION." The presence, on or within a premises, of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
      "MIXED OCCUPANCY." Any building containing one (1) or more dwelling
units, rooming units or hotel or motel accommodations and also having a portion
thereof devoted to nonresidential uses.
      "NUISANCE."
         (a)   Any public nuisance known at public law or in law or equity
jurisprudence, or as provided by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
or the ordinances of the City of Crittenden.
         (b)   Any inadequately protected well, shaft, basement, excavation,
abandoned or nondrivable motor vehicle or equipment, structurally unsound fence
or building, lumber, trash, debris or vegetation, such as poison ivy, oak or
sumac or other condition which is or may be detrimental to the safety or health
of persons.
         (c)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons on or near the premises where the conditions exist.
         (d)   Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental
to the health of human beings.
         (e)   Fire hazards.
      "OCCUPANCY UNIT." Any room or group of rooms, or part thereof, forming a
single usable unit (used or intended to be used, or designed to be used, for
nonresidential purposes) and located within a building used or intended to be
used, or designed to be used, in whole or in part, for commercial business,
industrial or any other nonresidential occupancy.
      "OCCUPANT." Any person or persons, including the owner in actual
possession of and using an entire building or an occupancy unit in a building.
      "OPERATOR." Any person who has charge, care or control of a premises, or
part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge and consent of the owner.
      "OWNER." The holder or holders of the title to premises in fee simple.
      "PARTIES IN INTEREST." All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a building and any who are in actual possession
thereof.
      "PERSON." Shall be given the same meaning as defined in Kentucky law.
      "PREMISES." A lot, plot or parcel of land and any buildings located
thereon.
      "REFUSE." All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste, (except body
wastes), including but not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial
wastes.
      "RUBBISH." Includes all combustible and noncombustible waste material,
except garbage.
      "STRUCTURE." An assembly of materials forming a construction, including
but not limited to buildings, stadiums, gospel and circus tents, reviewing
stands, platforms, stagings, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks,
trestles, open sheds, bins, shelters, fences and display racks and signs.
      "TRANSLUCENT." The property of admitting the passage of light but
diffusing it so that objects beyond it cannot be clearly distinguished.
      "WATER CLOSET COMPARTMENT." An enclosure containing a single water
closet.
      "WEATHERING." Deterioration, decay or damage caused by exposure to the
elements.
      "WINDOW." An opening in the wall or roof of a building for the admission
of light, which opening may be closed to the elements by casements or sashes
containing glass or other transparent material.
      "WINDOW DISPLAY AREA." That area of a building in proximity to the inner
surface of a window which is designed or used for the viewing of the interior
and the display of items representative of any goods or services pertaining to
the business therein.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.006 WORD USAGE
   Whenever, in describing or referring to any person, party, matter or thing,
any word importing the singular number or masculine gender is used, the same
shall be understood to include and to apply to several persons or parties, as
well as to one (1) person and to females as well as males and to bodies
corporate as well as individuals and to several matters and things as well as
one (1) matter or thing. The word "SHALL" shall be applied retroactively as
well as prospectively.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.007 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES
   The premises shall be kept free of litter (including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, discarded, windblown, deposited, dropped or strewn
paper, wrappings, cardboard, bottles, cans, boxes and broken glass) and of all
nuisances and hazards to the safety of tenants, occupants, pedestrians and
other persons having access to the premises, and free of unsanitary conditions;
and any of the foregoing shall be promptly removed and abated. The word
"HAZARDS" shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Refuse. Brush, weeds, broken glass, stumps, roots, obnoxious growths,
filth, garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse and debris of any description.
   (B)   Natural growth. Dead and dying trees and other natural growth which,
by reason of rotting or deteriorating conditions or storm damage, are or may be
dangerous to persons in the vicinity thereof. Trees shall be kept pruned and
trimmed to prevent such conditions.
   (C)   Overhangings. Loose, overhanging and projecting objects and
accumulations of ice and snow, which by reason of location above ground level,
constitute dangers to persons in the vicinity thereof.
   (D)   Ground surface and unsanitary conditions. Holes, excavations, breaks,
projections, obstructions and excretion of pets or other animals on paths,
sidewalks, walks, driveways, parking lots and parking areas and other parts of
the exterior of the premises which are accessible to and used by persons having
access to such premises, including, but not limited to vehicle parking lots,
which lots shall be maintained in at least as good condition as when originally
established.
   (E)   Recurring accumulation of storm water. Adequate runoff drains shall be
provided and maintained to eliminate recurrent accumulations of storm water
   (F)   Infestation. Sources of infestation.
   (G)   Foundation walls. Foundation walls shall be kept structurally sound,
free from defects and damage and capable of bearing imposed loads safely.
   (H)   Chimneys and flue and vent attachments thereto. Chimneys and flue and
vent attachments thereto shall be maintained structurally sound, free from
defects and so maintained as to capably perform, at all times, the functions
for which they were designed and constructed. Chimneys, flues, gas vents and
other draft-producing equipment shall provide sufficient draft to develop the
rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable,
smoke tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
   (I)   Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes.
Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes shall be
provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
structurally sound, in good repair, well painted or otherwise provided with a
protective treatment to prevent deterioration, and free from defects.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.008 APPEARANCE OF EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES AND WINDOW DISPLAY AREAS
   The exterior of the premises shall be maintained so that the appearance
thereof shall reflect a level of maintenance in keeping with the standards of
the neighborhood or such higher standards as may be adopted by the city and
such that the appearance thereof shall not constitute a blighting effect upon
neighboring properties nor an element leading to a progressive deterioration
and downgrading of neighboring properties with an accompanying diminution of
property values, including the following:
   (A)   Landscaping.  Where exposed to public view, the landscaping of
premises shall be maintained in an orderly state with lawns and bushes trimmed
and free from becoming overgrown, littered and unsightly where such would
constitute a blighting effect, depreciating adjoining and nearby property. Open
areas shall be graded evenly to eliminate holes, depressions, gullies, mounds,
accumulations of debris or other unsightly or unsafe conditions.
   (B)   Signs and billboards. All permanent signs and billboards exposed to
public view permitted by the Zoning Ordinance and regulated by the Building
Code or other regulations or as a lawful nonconforming use shall be maintained
in good repair. Any sign or billboard which has weathered excessively or faded
or the paint on which has excessively peeled or cracked shall, with the
supporting members, be removed forthwith or put into a state of good repair.
All nonoperative or broken electrical signs shall be repaired or shall, with
their supporting members, be removed forthwith. Only such signage as
specifically permitted by the Zoning Ordinance shall be displayed upon any
premises.
   (C)   Rooftop signs. All rooftop signs and rooftop billboards now in
existence, whether under nonconforming uses or otherwise, shall be removed no
later than five (5) years from the date of the adoption of this amendment to
the Code of the City of Crittenden.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.009 WINDOWS AND WINDOW DISPLAY AREAS
   All windows exposed to public view shall be kept clean and free of marks and
foreign substances. Except when necessary in the course of changing displays,
no storage of materials, stock or inventory shall be permitted in window
display areas ordinarily exposed to public view, unless such areas are first
screened by drapes, venetian blinds or other means of making the windows
translucent. All screening of interiors shall be maintained in a clean and
attractive manner and in a good state of repair.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.010 REPAIR AND PAINTING OF EXTERIORS OF BUILDINGS
   All store fronts and the exteriors of all buildings shall be kept in good
repair, painted where required or otherwise provided with protective treatment
sufficient to prevent deterioration and shall not constitute a safety hazard or
nuisance.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.011 AWNINGS AND MARQUEES
   Any awning or marquee and its accompanying structural members, which extend
over any street, sidewalk or other portion of the premises, shall be maintained
in good repair and shall be so maintained as to not constitute a nuisance or a
safety hazard. In the event that any such awning or marquee is not properly
maintained in accordance with the foregoing, it shall, together with its
supporting members, be removed forthwith. In the event that any such awning or
marquee is made of cloth, plastic or of similar materials, said materials,
where exposed to public view, shall be maintained in good condition and shall
not show evidence of excessive weathering, discoloration, ripping, tearing or
other deterioration. Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize any
encroachment of an awning, marquee or its accompanying structural members on
streets, sidewalks or other parts of the public domain.
   (A)   Scaffolding. No temporary painting scaffold or other temporary
equipment used for construction, repair or maintenance, shall be permitted to
remain in place beyond a period of six (6) months after erection of placement
thereof without permission of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Fences. Barbed wire fences may only be used for the purpose of
protecting the area enclosed, and in the event of use of such fencing, the
lowest point of said barbed wiring thereof must be at least six (6) feet from
ground level.
   (C)   Landscaping, curbing and sidewalks.
      (1)   The owner or occupant shall be responsible for the maintenance of
the area abutting such property between the street property line and pavement
or roadway, including landscape ground cover, construction of curbing and/or
sidewalk, reconstruction and/or replacement of defective or hazardous curb and
sidewalk. The aforementioned area shall not be paved by the owner or occupant
unless specifically authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer in writing.
      (2)   Sidewalk and curbing shall be cast-in-place concrete or Belgian
block conforming to current city specifications. The use of wood, precast
concrete, rocks or any material other than cast-in-place concrete or Belgian
block is specifically prohibited.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officer could, at the request of the city or
through his own initiative, direct the construction of curbing or its
reconstruction, as required.
(Ord. 262-20128, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.012 WINDOW DISPLAYS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS
   (A)   In the Business districts, goods and materials on sale shall be
displayed in the window display portion of said establishments either on
mannequins or display dummies or loosely along the floor of the window area in
stacks not to exceed one (1) foot above the clear portion of the window.
   (B)   Interior or exterior signs in business districts. In the business
districts, interior or exterior signs placed directly upon store windows, show
windows or display windows shall at no time cover more than twenty-five percent
(25%) of the window area. Only one (1) such sign shall be allowed in each
window upon a white background with black lettering, professionally painted.
   (C)   Interior paper signs. In the business districts, interior paper signs
placed directly upon store windows, show windows or display windows shall at no
time cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the window area, whether the sign
is attached to the window or not. Only one (1) such sign shall be allowed in
each window upon a white background with black lettering, professionally
painted. Only one (1) such sign shall be allowed at any one (1) time.
   (D)   Structural soundness and general maintenance, exterior. The exterior
of every building shall be maintained in good repair, and all exterior surfaces
thereof shall be kept painted or otherwise provided with a protective treatment
where necessary for purposes of preservation and appearance. All exterior
surfaces thereof shall be maintained free from broken glass, loose shingles or
siding, crumbling masonry, excessively peeling paint or other condition
reflective of deterioration or inadequate maintenance to the end that the
building itself may be preserved, safety and fire hazards eliminated and
adjoining properties and the neighborhood protected from blighting influences.
   (E)   General sanitation and safety. Floors shall be maintained in a
structurally sound condition capable of safely bearing imposed loads and shall
be maintained at all times in a condition so as to be free of hazards.
   (F)   Bathroom and water closet compartment floors shall be surfaced with
water-resistant material and shall be kept in a dry, clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (G)   All portions of any structure shall be kept structurally sound, free
from deterioration and capable of safely bearing imposed loads.
   (H)   In buildings containing not more than four (4) occupancy units, it
shall be the responsibility of each of the occupants and, in buildings
containing more than four (4) occupancy units, it shall be the responsibility
of the owner and operator to furnish such receptacles as are needed for the
proper storage of garbage and rubbish until removal thereof and to provide for
the periodic removal of all garbage and rubbish from the premises in accordance
with the regulations and ordinances of the city.
   (I)   Storage bins, rooms and areas shall not be used for the storage of
accumulated garbage and rubbish unless:
      (1)   Such garbage is stored in watertight receptacles of metal or other
material approved by the Code Enforcement Officer and provided with tight-
fitting covers.
      (2)   Such rubbish is stored in nonleaking receptacles of metal or other
material approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   Such storage bins, rooms and areas are of smooth, easily cleanable
construction and are kept in a sanitary condition. Such areas, if located
outside of a building and visible from any public walk, street or public
parking area, are shielded by a method approved by the Code Enforcement Officer
and constructed in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Building
Code of the city.
      (4)   Such area is of fireproof construction.
   (J)   Rubbish and garbage shall be placed or kept on the property within the
building located thereon or not nearer to the street line than the building
line or nearer to the street line than the face of the building, whichever
distance from the street line is the greater, except during any cleanup week
proclaimed by the city.
   (K)   Fllammable or combustible liquids or other materials shall not be
stored on the premises, unless they are of a type approved for storage by
regulation of the Fire Department and then only in such quantities and in such
fireproof storage containers as may be prescribed by applicable Fire Department
regulations.
   (L)   Every occupant of a single-occupancy unit in a building comprising a
single-occupancy unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any
insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the premises; and each occupant
of an occupancy unit in any building which has more than one (1) occupancy unit
shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his occupancy unit is the
only one infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision of this section,
whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner or operator to maintain
any such building in a reasonably pestproof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner and operator. Whenever infestation exists in
two (2) or more of the occupancy units in any building or in the common parts
of any building containing two (2) or more occupancy units, extermination
thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner and operator.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.013 UTILITIES AND FACILITIES
   (A)   Every building shall be provided with electric service, where
required, in accordance with the standards of the National Electrical Code, as
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall be provided with
permanently installed and operating artificial lighting fixtures with switches
and wallplates so located and maintained that there is no danger of electrical
shock from a simultaneous contact with a water supply fixture.
   (C)   Maximum fuse sizes as specified by the National Electrical Code, as
amended from time to time, shall be posted conspicuously on the inside cover of
all fuse boxes, and no fuse shall be installed therein in excess of the stated
maximum. Owners and operators shall not be held responsible for violations in
fuse sizes where the correct maximum size is stated and the fuse box is located
within any part of the building which is the exclusive possession of an
occupant or occupants, other than the owner.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.014 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS
   (A)   Upon discovery by an occupant of any condition on the premises which
constitutes a violation of this section, the occupant shall report the same to
the Code Enforcement Officer responsible for enforcement of this article.
   (B)   All parts of the premises under the control of an occupant shall be
kept in a clean, sanitary and safe condition by the occupant, and the occupant
shall refrain from performing any acts which would render other parts of the
premises unclean, unsanitary or unsafe, or which would prevent the owner or
operator from performing any duty required hereunder.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.015 ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the City of Crittenden annually, and he shall
exercise the powers prescribed by this article. He may appoint or designate
such other municipal officers or employees and assistants as may be required to
perform such of his functions and to exercise such powers under this article as
he deems necessary for the enforcement of this article, including the making of
inspections and the holding of hearings.
   (B)   Inspection of premises. All premises within the city covered by this
article shall be subject to inspection from time to time by the Code
Enforcement Officer to determine the condition thereof in order that he may
perform his duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the persons occupying
the same and of the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections,
the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey
at all reasonable times all such premises; provided, however, that such entries
are made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession. The owner, operator and persons occupying the same shall
give the Code Enforcement Officer free access to the same at all reasonable
times for the purpose of such inspection. Every person occupying such premises
shall give the owner and operator thereof access to that portion of the
premises occupied by or in the possession of such person at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs, alterations or corrections as are
necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this article or with any
lawful rule or regulation adopted or any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   Determination of unfitness for use or occupancy. For the purposes of
this article, the Code Enforcement Officer may determine that a building is
unfit for human habitation, use or occupancy, if he finds that conditions exist
in such building which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of
persons occupying or using the same or neighboring buildings or to other
residents of the city. Such conditions may include the following (without
limiting the generality of the foregoing): defects therein increasing the
hazards of fire, accident or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation,
light or sanitation facilities; dilapidation; deterioration; disrepair;
structural defects; uncleanliness; or failure to comply with the standards
established by this article.
   (D)   Charges and hearing. Whenever a petition is filed with the Code
Enforcement Officer by a public authority or by at least five (5) residents of
the city charging that any building is unfit for human habitation or occupancy
or use, or whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement Officer (on his own
motion) that any building is unfit for human habitation or occupancy or use,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses
a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in such building a complaint stating the charges in that
respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Code
Enforcement Officer (or his designated agent) at a place therein fixed not less
than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the serving of said
complaint; and that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right
to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and
give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules
of evidence prevailing in the courts of the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall not
be controlling in hearings before the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   Findings of fact and order. If, after the notice and hearing provided
for in division (D) above, the Code Enforcement Officer determines that the
building under consideration is unfit for human habitation or occupancy or use,
or otherwise in violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the city or
any of them, he shall state, in writing, his findings of fact in support of
such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof and parties in interest an order requiring:
      (1)   The repair, alteration or improvement of said building to be made
by the owner within a reasonable time, which time shall be set forth in the
order or at the option of the owner to repair, vacate or to have said building
vacated and closed within the time set forth in the order and as directed
therein.
      (2)   If the building is in such a condition as to make it dangerous to
the health and safety of persons on or near the premises and the owner fails to
repair, alter or improve said building within the time specified in the order,
that the owner remove or demolish the building within a reasonable time as
specified in said order of removal.
      (3)   Failure of owner to comply with order to repair or vacate. If the
owner fails to comply with an order requiring him to repair, alter or improve
or, at his option, to vacate and close the building, the Code Enforcement
Officer may cause such building to be repaired, altered or improved, or to be
vacated and closed and may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any
building so closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit
for human habitation or occupancy or use; the use or occupation of this
building is prohibited and unlawful."
      (4)   Failure of owner to comply with order to remove or demolish. If the
owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the building, the
Code Enforcement Officer may cause such building to be removed or demolished or
may contract for the removal or demolition thereof after advertisement for, and
receipt of, bids therefor.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.016 LIEN OF MUNICIPALITY
   (A)   The amount of the cost of the filing of legal papers, expert witnesses
fees, search fees and advertising charges, incurred in the course of any
proceeding taken under this article determined in favor of the city; and the
cost of any such repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing,
or removal or demolition, if any, undertaken pursuant thereto, or the amount of
the balance thereof remaining after deduction of the sum, if any, realized from
the sale of materials derived from such building or from any contract for
removal or demolition thereof, shall be a municipal lien against the real
property upon which such cost was incurred.
   (B)   If the building is removed or demolished by the Code Enforcement
Officer, he shall sell the materials of such building. There shall be credited
against the cost of the removal or demolition thereof the proceeds of any sale
of such materials or any sum derived from any contract for the removal or
demolition of the building. If there are no such credits or if the sum total of
such costs exceeds the total of such credits, a detailed statement (herein
called the municipal lien certificate) of the aforesaid costs and the amount so
due shall be filed by the Code Enforcement Officer with the City Clerk, and a
copy thereof shall be forthwith forwarded by the Code Enforcement Officer to
the owner by registered mail. If the total of the credits exceed such costs,
the balance remaining shall be deposited with the Clerk of the Grant Circuit
Court by the Code Enforcement Officer, shall be secured in such manner as may
be directed by such court and shall be disbursed according to the order of
judgment of the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or judgment of such court; provided, however, that nothing contained in
this article shall be construed to limit or impair in any way the power of the
city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement,
by summary proceedings or otherwise. Any owner or party in interest may, within
sixty (60) days from the date of the filing of the municipal lien certificate,
proceed in a summary manner in the Grant Circuit Court to contest the
reasonableness of the amount or the accuracy of the costs set forth in the
municipal lien certificate.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.017 CERTIFICATE OF NECESSITY
   (A)   Who may apply. Where any owner, operator or occupant is required to
make repairs or otherwise improve his property and is unable to comply with
this article without having a right of access to the premises through or across
adjoining premises not owned by him or under his control, and where right to
access has been refused such owner, operator or occupant required to make such
repair, or where the owner or person empowered to grant such access cannot be
found or located, then upon the filing of an affidavit by such owner, operator
or occupant with the Code Enforcement Officer, setting forth the facts and
applying for a certificate of necessity, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
serve written notice of a hearing on said application upon the applicant for
such certificate and upon the owner or person empowered to grant such access.
Said notice of hearing shall state the matters to be considered at said hearing
and shall be served in the manner prescribed for the service of complaints and
orders by Kentucky law, except that the Code Enforcement Officer shall not be
required to record or lodge a copy of such notice with the County Recording
Officer of the County of Grant. At least ten (10) days' notice of such hearing
shall be given where the address of the owner or person empowered to grant such
access is known. If such address is unknown or cannot be ascertained by the
Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, at least
thirty (30) days' notice thereof shall be given, calculated from the date of
the first newspaper publication thereof.
   (B)   Hearing. On the day fixed for hearing, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall provide opportunity for the owner or person empowered to grant such
access to state why such access should not be granted.
   (C)   Conditions for issuance of certificate. If the Code Enforcement
Officer determines that such access is necessary to accomplish or complete
repairs or improvements necessary for compliance with this article, then the
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a certificate of necessity granting and
ordering access and setting forth therein the person or persons to whom the
certificate shall apply, such conditions as shall be necessary to protect
adjoining property, reasonable time limits during which certificate shall
operate, precautions to be taken to avoid damage and, where the Code
Enforcement Officer deems proper, that a bond be procured at the expense of the
person seeking such access to secure such adjoining property owner against
damage to persons or property arising out of such right of access. The amount
set for the bond shall take into consideration the extent, nature and duration
of the repairs and improvements, the proximity thereof to the premises over
which access has been sought and the potential risk of damage thereto. Said
bond, if required, shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Refusal to comply with certificate. Any refusal to comply with a
certificate issued hereunder, or any interference with the purpose for which a
certificate is issued, shall be a violation of this article and, in addition,
to the penalties provided hereunder, the Code Enforcement Officer may, upon
affidavit, setting forth the facts, apply to the Judge of the Grant Circuit
Court for an order authorizing access and, if the Judge is satisfied as to the
matters set forth in said affidavit, he shall authorize the issuance of an
order permitting access.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.018 SERVICE, OATHS, RULES AND REGULATIONS
   (A)   Complaints, orders and certificates of necessity issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer pursuant to this article shall be served and recorded or
lodged for record in the manner prescribed by Kentucky law.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and empowered to
exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out the
purposes and provisions of this article, including but not limited to the
following, in addition to others herein granted, to administer oaths,
affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence and to make and adopt such
written rules and regulations as he may deem necessary and the City Council
approves, by resolution, for the proper enforcement of the provisions of this
article; provided, however, that such rules and regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this article nor in anywise alter, amend, add
to or supersede any of the provisions hereof. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall file a certified copy of all such rules and regulations in his office and
in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Annual review of article provisions and operations. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall, in the month of December of each year, review with
the Mayor, City Council and City Attorney, the procedure and operation of this
article.
   (D)   Any recommended amendments, additions or modifications of the
provisions of this article consonant with the field experience of the personnel
charged with enforcement.
   (E)   A summary of the enforcement experiences, indicating number of
violations abated, number of cases processed in the Code Enforcement Board,
number of inspections made and such other and further pertinent information as
will provide the City Council with an annual account of the maintenance of the
standards required by this article.
   (F)   Any further recommendations as to how this article and the procedures
and operations thereunder may be improved.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.019 NONAPPLICABILITY
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this article, the provisions thereof
shall not apply to any land located in an agricultural zone and existing in its
natural state.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.020 SERVICE OF ORDERS
   The service of orders for the correction of violations of this srticle shall
be made upon the owner, occupant or other persons responsible for the
conditions, either by delivering a copy of the same to such person, or by
delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises, or by sending it by mail to the owner, occupant or operator.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
ARTICLE II. RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS AND VACANT LAND
§ 73.030 FINDINGS
   It is hereby found and determined that by reason of lack of maintenance and
resulting progressive deterioration, the condition of certain properties has
the effect of creating blighting conditions and that, if the same are not
curtailed and removed, the aforesaid conditions will grow and spread and will
necessitate in time the expenditure of large amounts of public funds to correct
and eliminate the same. Timely regulations and restrictions as indicated in
this article will prevent the creation of blighting conditions and the
maintenance of neighborhood and property values. The enhancement of
neighborhoods and the public health, safety and welfare would be protected and
fostered.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.031 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, morals
and welfare by establishing minimum standards governing the conditions of
maintenance of dwelling units and to fix certain responsibilities and duties
upon owners; to authorize and establish procedures for the inspection of such
dwellings and to fix penalties for the violation of this article. This article
is hereby declared to be remedial and essential for the public interest, and it
is intended that the same shall be liberally construed to effectuate the
purposes herein stated.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.032 COMPLIANCE
   Every dwelling used for human habitation, garages or other outbuildings
shall comply with the provisions of this article, whether or not such dwelling
or other structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired before or
after enactment of this article and irrespective of any permits or licenses
which shall have been issued for the use or occupancy of said dwelling or other
structure, or for the construction or repair of the same. It is the purpose of
this article to establish minimum standards for such dwellings, and this
article does not replace or modify standards otherwise established for the
construction, repair, alteration or use of any said dwellings or other
structures.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.033 PREVAILING STANDARDS
   In any case where the provisions of this article impose a higher standard
than that set forth in any other ordinance of the City of Crittenden or under
any law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, then the standards as set forth herein
shall prevail; but if the provisions of this article impose a lower standard
than any such ordinance or law, then and in that event, the higher standard
contained in any other such ordinance or law shall prevail.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.034 DEFINITION
   For purposes of this article the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING ." A building or structure or part thereof containing one (1) or
more dwelling units.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.035 CONDITION OF STRUCTURE
   Every foundation, floor, wall, building, door, window, roof or other part of
a building shall be kept in good repair and capable of the use intended by its
design, and any exterior part or parts thereof subject to corrosion or
deterioration shall be kept well painted or otherwise provided with a
protective treatment sufficient to prevent deterioration.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.036 ORDERS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   The Code Enforcement Officer, as herein designated, may order the owner to
paint or treat the exterior walls of any such dwelling, when such walls have so
deteriorated as to warrant the need for repainting or treating in order to
prevent aggravated deterioration of such exterior wall.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.037 VACANT AND/OR OCCUPIED LAND
   All vacant and or occupied land, lots and premises, with or without
buildings thereon, designed and/or used for residential purposes shall be clean
and free from garbage, rubbish and debris, as well as unsightly natural growth,
and from any and all conditions which might result in a hazard to safety. All
grass, hedges and shrubbery shall be kept trimmed and shall not be permitted to
become overgrown and unsightly. All fences surrounding vacant or occupied lands
herein described shall be kept in good repair. Grass upon such lots shall be
kept mowed to an average height of not more than ten (10) inches and non-
ornamental bushes shall not be permitted to grow upon such premises.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.038 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER
   (A)   The owner or occupant shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
area abutting such property between the street property line and pavement or
roadway, including landscape ground cover, construction of curbing and/or
sidewalk and reconstruction and/or replacement of defective or hazardous curb
and sidewalk. The aforementioned area shall not be paved by the owner or
occupant unless specifically authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer in
writing.
   (B)   Sidewalk and curbing shall be cast-in-place concrete or Belgian block
conforming to current city specifications. The use of wood, precast concrete,
rocks or any material other than cast-in-place concrete or Belgian block is
specifically prohibited.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or permit solid waste
containers or any similar type containers of any kind to be placed at the curb
line in front of any premises for collection before the hour of 4:00 p.m.
prevailing time on the evening before the collection dates on the street or
roadway on which the premises are located and the containers shall be placed at
the curb line in front of the premises or at such other location as designed by
the solid waste collection agency or the code enforcement officer for such
collection. After the containers have been emptied, the person responsible for
said containers shall remove them from the front of the premises and place them
within two feet of their premises or garage with the goal of hiding them from
view as much as practical. Empty containers shall be removed from the curbside
as soon as practicable after being emptied but in any event, no later than 12:
00 p.m. on the day after they are emptied.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer could, at the request of the City Council
or through his own initiative, direct the construction of curbing or its
reconstruction as required.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18; Am. Ord. 311-2022, passed 1-10-23)
§ 73.039 DESIGNATION AS CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   The City of Crittenden, shall, acting by and through its Mayor, designate
the Code Enforcement Officer to exercise the powers prescribed by this article.
The Code Enforcement Officer, with the concurrence of the Mayor, may appoint or
designate such other public officials or employees of the city to perform such
duties as may be necessary for the enforcement of this article, including the
making of inspections and holding hearings.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.040 INSPECTIONS
   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and empowered to make or
cause to be made inspections to determine the conditions set forth herein in
order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the
occupants of dwellings and of the general public.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.041 DETERMINATIONS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   For the purpose of this article, the Code Enforcement Officer may determine
that a building or the surrounding property or vacant land, as herein
described, is injurious to the health and safety of the occupants thereof, or
of neighboring buildings of other residents of the city; such conditions may
include, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, dilapidation,
disrepair, uncleanliness; or conditions deleterious to the well-being of the
general public with reference to vacant or occupied and not properly maintained
as required by this article.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.042 FILING OF PETITION
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Code Enforcement Officer by a public
authority, or by at least five (5) residents of the city or it appears to the
Code Enforcement Officer on his own motion that any building is in a state of
dilapidation, disrepair or uncleanliness; or the exterior is in need of
painting or treating; or conditions exist which are deleterious to the well-
being of the general public with reference to vacant or occupied land not
properly maintained as required by this article, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses the above, issue and cause to
be served upon the owner of the premises in question a complaint stating the
charges and the basis therefor and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Code Enforcement Officer or his designated agent at a place
then fixed, not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after
the serving of said complaint and that the owner of the premises in question
shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in
person or by counsel and give testimony concerning the charges. The rules of
evidence of the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer may determine
the necessity for a hearing.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.043 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   If, after the notice and hearing provided for herein, the Code
Enforcement Officer determines that the building is in a state of dilapidation,
disrepair or uncleanliness, or the exterior thereof is in need of painting or
treating, or conditions deleterious to the well-being of the general public
with reference to vacant land not properly maintained as required by this
article, he shall state, in writing, his findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order requiring the correction of the aforesaid deficiencies, and if the owner
fails to make the correction directed in said order, within the time set forth
therein, then and in that event, said owner shall be guilty of a violation of
this article.
   (B)   At the option of the owner, in lieu of making the required
corrections, said owner may cause the premises to be vacated and closed within
the time set forth in said order should the violation pertain to a structure
only.
   (C)   If the building is in such a condition as to make it dangerous to the
health and safety of persons on or near the premises and the owner fails to
repair, alter or improve said building within the time specified in the order,
then the owner shall be required to remove or demolish said building within a
reasonable time as specified in said order of removal.
   (D)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve, or at the option of the owner to vacate and close the building, the
Code Enforcement Officer may cause such building to be repaired, altered or
improved or to be vacated and closed, in which latter event the Code
Enforcement Officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building
so closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human
habitation or occupancy or use; the use or occupation of this building is
prohibited and unlawful."
   (E)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
building, the Code Enforcement Officer may cause such building to be removed or
demolished or may contract for the removal or demolition thereof after
advertisement for and bids therefor in accordance with the laws of public
publication of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.044 COSTS AND LIABILITY
   The amount of the cost of the filing of legal papers, expert witness fees,
search fees and advertising charges, incurred in the course of any proceeding
taken under this article, determined in favor of the municipality, and such
costs of such repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or
removal or demolition, if any, or the amount of the balance thereof remaining
after deduction of the sum, if any, realized from the sale of materials derived
from such building or from any contract for removal or demolition thereof,
shall be a municipal lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. If the building is removed or demolished by the Code Enforcement
Officer, he shall sell the materials of such building. There shall be credited
against the cost of the removal or demolition thereof the proceeds of any sale
of such materials or any sum derived from any contract for the removal or
demolition of the building. If there are no such credits or if the sum total of
such costs exceeds the total of such credits, a detailed statement of the
aforesaid costs and the amount so due shall be filed with the City Clerk or
other custodian of the records of tax liens, and a copy thereof shall be
forthwith forwarded to the owner by certified mail. If the total of the credits
exceeds such costs, the balance remaining shall be deposited in the Grant
Circuit Court by the Code Enforcement Officer, shall be secured in such manner
as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed according to the order
or judgment of the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or judgment of such court; provided, however, that nothing in this
section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the
municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement, by summary proceedings or otherwise. Any owner or party in interest
may, within sixty (60) days from the date of the filing of the lien
certificate, proceed in a summary manner in the Grant Circuit Court to contest
the reasonableness of the amount or the accuracy of the costs set forth in the
city lien certificate.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.045 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this article, including the following, in addition
to others herein granted to administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses
and receive evidence, and to make and adopt such written rules and regulations
as he may deem necessary, and that the City Council approves by resolution, for
the proper enforcement of the provisions of this article; provided, however,
that such rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the provisions of
this article nor in anywise alter, amend or supersede any of the provisions
thereof. The Code Enforcement Officer shall file a certified copy of all such
rules and regulations in his office and in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
§ 73.046 APPEALS
   Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any act of the Code Enforcement
Officer may appeal in writing such act of said Code Enforcement Officer to the
Code Enforcement Board within seven (7) days of such act of said Code
Enforcement Officer and request a hearing thereon by said Board. The Board
shall hold a hearing on said appeal within twenty-one (21) days after the
filing of the notice of appeal. At said hearing, the appellant may be
represented by counsel. The Board is empowered to vacate any finding in whole
or in part of said Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18; Am. Ord. 316-2023, passed 5-23-23)
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
73.001 through
73.020 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to one (1) or more of the
following: a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per violation with each day being a separate
violation, or, in the event a specific fine is levied by any other ordinance of
the city and is more specific than the general fine imposed herein, such other
more specific fine may be imposed in the discretion of the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or the Code Enforcement Board as may be appropriate.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
73.030 through
73.046 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine in an amount not
less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) per day with each subsequent day being a new violation.
(Ord. 262-2018, passed 5-22-18)
TITLE 8: PLANNING AND ZONING
   
CHAPTER 80:   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
CHAPTER 81:   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 80: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
80.001   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
§ 80.001 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The city hereby adopts, and incorporates by reference, the Grant County
Comprehensive Plan, 1996, as adopted by the Grant County Planning Commission in
1996, as if fully set forth herein.
(Adopted 6-6-95)
CHAPTER 81: ZONING CODE
ARTICLE I. A ZONING ORDINANCE
   
81.001   Adopted by reference
ARTICLE I. A ZONING ORDINANCE
§ 81.001 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The city hereby adopts, in all its parts, the Official Zoning Ordinance of
Grant County, Kentucky and publication of the same shall be deemed to have
occurred by publication of Ord. 183-2004, passed 6-1-04, as permitted by KRS
100.207 and KRS 83A.060. A full text of the copy is attached to said ordinance
and incorporated by reference and following adoption of the ordinance this
adoption shall be incorporated into the text of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 183-2004, passed 6-1-04)
TABLES OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   
TABLE 1   SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
   
TABLE 2   ANNEXATIONS
   
TABLE 3   BONDS
   
TABLE 4   FRANCHISES
   
TABLE 5   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
TABLE 6   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   
TABLE 7   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
   
TABLE 8   TAXATION
   
TABLE 9   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
TABLE 10   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE 1: SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have been superseded or
repealed by ordinance or superseded by changes in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes:
Ord. No. Date Subject Reason/Ord. No.
Ord. No. Date    Subject                                      Reason/Ord. No.
227-60   2-5-60  Designating time and place of meetings.       
228-60   3-11-60 Imposing occupational license tax.           2-83, 6-9-83
6-63     5-13-63 Imposing license tax on insurance companies. 9-84, 11-1-84
9-63     8-12-63 Imposing a curfew on minors.                 130-1998, 10-6-98
2-64     9-14-64 Amending license tax on insurance companies. 9-84, 11-1-84
4-64     - -     Providing minimum standards for construction 3-82, 5-4-82
                 of buildings.
5-64     9-14-64 Amending license tax on insurance companies. 9-84, 11-1-84
67-5     7-10-67 Adopting zoning regulations.                 3-83, 10-4-83
3-70     3-2-70  Amending occupational license taxes.         2-83, 6-9-83
4-1970   5-14-70 Prohibiting the keeping of livestock.        11-1981, 9-1-81
2-76     5-3-76  Amending occupational license taxes.         2-83, 6-9-83
4-1978   6-12-78 Amending planning and zoning ordinance.      3-83, 10-4-83
10-1979  11-6-79 Regulating electrical wiring standards.      102-1995, 11-7-95
2-81     - -     Establishing weight limits on city streets.  6-81, 6-2-81
3-81     2-3-81  Regulating building permits.                 7-81, 6-2-81
9-81     8-4-81  Amending license tax on insurance companies. 9-84, 11-1-84
14-1981  10-6-81 Amending occupational license taxes.         2-83, 6-9-83
17-86    11-4-86 Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
28-1987  11-3-87 Establishing planning commission fees.       121-1997, 1-6-98
30-1988  5-17-88 Intending to annex certain property.         44-1988, 12-6-88
31-1988  5-17-88 Intending to annex certain property.         45-1988, 12-6-88
33-1988  5-17-88 Intending to annex certain property.         38-1988, 9-6-88
35-1988  6-7-88  Amending sewer service outside city limits.  37-1988, 8-9-88
42-1988  10-4-88 Amending zoning ordinance.                    
43-1988  10-4-88 Intending to annex certain property.         48-1989, 2-7-89
65-1990  12-4-90 Establishing procedure for shutting off       
                 sewer service for delinquent accounts.
74-1991  1-7-92  Establishing 911 service.                    1995-100, 6-20-95
93-1994  10-4-94 Establishing a code of ethics.               97-1994, 12-8-94
105-1996 5-7-96  Responsibility for installation              192-2006
115-1997 4-3-97  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
121-1998 1-6-98  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
124-1998 2-3-98  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
166-2002 6-4-02  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
170-2003 4-2-03  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
174-2003 6-5-03  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
177-2003 9-5-03  Amending the zoning code                     183-2004
276-2019 8-6-19  Bidding threshold for city expenditures      291-2021
                                                            
 
TABLE 2: ANNEXATIONS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject annexing
property to or removing property from the city limits:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No.  Date     Subject
2-66      4-11-66  Proposing to annex a certain subdivision of lands designated
                   as Block A of the Violet Ridge Acres Subdivision.
3-66      7-11-66  Annexing a certain subdivision of lands designated as Block
                   A of the Violet Ridge Acres Subdivision.
3-72      11-6-72  Annexing certain subdivisions of land designated as Block A
                   of the Oakview Estates Subdivision.
2-77      5-2-77   Proposing to annex a certain subdivision of lands designated
                   as Bullock Pen Acres.
3-77      7-11-77  Annexing a certain subdivision of lands designated as
                   Bullock Pen Acres.
                   Proposing to annex two (2) tracts of land approximately
4-77      12-5-77  48.32 and 17.84 acres, subdivided and adjacent to the city
                   limits.
5-77      12-5-77  Proposing to annex seven (7) tracts of land, subdivided and
                   adjacent to the city limits.
2-78      1-4-78   Annexing approximately 48.32 and 17.84 acres of land,
                   subdivided and adjacent to the city limits.
3-78      1-4-78   Annexing seven (7) tracts of land, subdivided and adjacent
                   to the city limits.
8-1979    10-27-79 Proposing to annex approximately 64.574 acres of land on
                   U.S. Route 25.
11-79     11-27-79 Annexing approximately 64.574 acres of land on U.S. Route
                   25.
32-1988   5-17-88  Proposing to annex certain real property contiguous to the
                   city limits.
34-1988   5-17-88  Proposing to annex certain real property contiguous to the
                   city limits.
39-1988   10-4-88  Annexing certain real property contiguous to the city
                   limits.
40-1988   11-8-88  Annexing certain real property contiguous to the city
                   limits.
53-1989   4-4-89   Proposing to annex certain real property being all of Lots
                   #5 and #6 and part of Lot #4 in Kidwell Subdivision.
55-1989   6-13-89  Proposing to annex certain real property being all of Lots
                   #1, #2, and #3 of the Sherman Dixon Subdivision.
61-1990   4-3-90   Proposing to annex three (3) tracts of land contiguous to
                   the city limits.
62-1990   6-19-90  Proposing to annex Lot No. 15 in the Wagner Subdivision of
                   U.S. Highway 25 north of the city.
76-1992   10-6-92  Proposing to annex certain real property contiguous to the
                   city limits.
79-1993   1-12-93  Annexing certain real property contiguous to the city
                   limits.
84-1993   9-7-93   Proposing to annex certain real property contiguous to the
                   city limits.
88-1993   12-7-93  Annexing certain real property contiguous to the city
                   limits.
10-6-1996 6-4-96   Proposing to annex certain real property containing
                   approximately 24.6203 acres contiguous to the city limits.
109-1996  9-10-96  Annexing certain real property containing 24.6203 acres
                   contiguous to the city limits.
116-1997  4-1-97   Proposing to annex certain real property on the east side of
                   U.S. 25, containing approximately 4.208 acres of land.
118-1997  7-1-97   Annexing certain real property on the east side of U.S. 25,
                   containing approximately 4.208 acres of land.
134-1999  3-9-99   Annexing certain real property containing 29.5495 acres of
                   land on the west side of Ruark Road.
                   Proposing to annex certain real property containing 14,227
135-1999  6-8-99   acres of land and 3.19 acres of land on the south side of
                   State Route 1548 (Violet Road).
                   Annexing certain real property containing approximately
141-1999  9-7-99   14,227 acres of land and 3.19 acres of land on the south
                   side of State Route 1548 (Violet Road).
146-2000  2-8-00   Annexing two (2) parcels of real property owned by Wallace
                   W. Bryant and Flora Lee Bryant.
157-2000  11-14-00 Annexing certain real property owned by A. L. Martin and
                   Margery B. Martin.
159-2001  7-10-01  Annexing certain real property owned by Eagle Creek Country
                   Club.
168-2002  2-11-03  Annexing certain real property owned by William C. Wilson
                   and Wilson Farms, LLC.
176-2003  9-2-03   Annexing certain real property owned by Harvey Eads and
                   Virginia Blazovic.
181-2004  3-8-04   Annexing certain real property owned by Maple Ridge
                   Development, LLC.
182-2004  5-4-04   Annexing certain real property owned by Maple Ridge
                   Development, LLC.
234-2014  5-6-14   Annexing certain real property contiguous to the city
                   limits.
 
TABLE 3: BONDS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject bonds
authorized or issued by the city:
 
Ord. No. Date     Subject
4-62     9-10-62  Authorizing issuance of Municipal Building Revenue Bonds in
                  the principal amount of $12,000.00.
7-1979   4-17-79  Authorizing issuance of Municipal Revenue Bonds in the
                  principal amount of $65,000.00.
60-1989  10-18-89 Authorizing issuance of Lease Revenue Bond Anticipation
                  Notes, Series 1989, in the principal amount of $100,000.00.
                  Authorizing issuance of Lease Revenue Bond Anticipation
95-1994  12-8-94  Renewal Notes, Series 1994, in the principal amount of
                  $100,000.00.
                  
 
TABLE 4: FRANCHISES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject bonds
authorized or issued by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date    Subject
                 Granting and offering for sale a twenty (20) year exclusive
1-69     9-8-69  franchise to place gas transmission and distribution
                 facilities in the public streets.
2-69     9-8-69  Accepting bid of Union Light, Heat and Power Company for sale
                 of franchise.
12-1979  12-4-79 Granting a residential garbage franchise to Epperson Trash
                 Hauling for a term of five (5) years.
4-83     10-4-83 Granting a CATV franchise to Eagle Valley Cable Company for a
                 term of fifteen (15) years.
10-85    4-2-85  Granting a CATV franchise to Telesat Communications of
                 Kentucky, Inc. for a term of fifteen (15) years.
                 Granting and offering for sale a twenty (20) year franchise to
13-85    10-2-85 place electric transmission and distribution facilities in
                 public streets.
                 Granting and offering for sale a twenty (20) year franchise to
18-87    2-3-87  place electric transmission and distribution facilities in
                 public streets.
                 Accepting bid of Union Light, Heat and Power Company as
20-87    5-5-87  grantee of twenty (20) year franchise to place electric
                 transmission and distribution facilities in public streets.
                 Granting and offering for sale a twenty (20) year franchise to
52-1989  4-4-89  place gas transmission and distribution facilities in public
                 streets.
                 Accepting bid of Union Light, Heat and Power Company as
54-1989  6-13-89 grantee of twenty (20) year franchise to place gas
                 transmission and distribution facilities in public streets.
73-1992  2-4-92  Providing for public bidding of a franchise to erect and
                 maintain a telephone and general communications system.
                 Amending Ord. 73-1992 regarding public bidding of a franchise
75-1992  4-7-92  to erect and maintain a telephone and general communications
                 system.
                 Granting a CATV franchise to Insight Kentucky Partners II,
148-2000 5-18-00 L.P. for a term of ten (10) years, and renewable for an
                 additional five (5) year term.
242-2015 10-6-15 Granting a competitive franchise agreement for cable service
                 to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC.
                
 
TABLE 5: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject
contracts or agreements executed by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date    Subject
221-58   9-13-58 Authorizing purchase of certain real estate.
                 Authorizing plan of Bullock Penn Water District to construct
226-59   8-7-59  and exclusively operate a waterworks system within the city
                 limits.
                 Agreement with Crittenden Volunteer Fire Department regarding
2-61     11-3-61 property owned jointly between the City and the Fire
                 Department
8-63     7-8-63  Authorizing contract of Union Light, Heat and Power Company to
                 install additional street lighting.
3-64     2-17-64 Authorizing contract of Union Light, Heat and Power Company to
                 install additional street lighting.
                 Authorizing execution of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
22-87    6-2-87  to Establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
                 Association.
89-1993  1-11-94 Authorizing execution of an agreement to form a Joint Local
                 Industrial Development Authority.
                 Authorizing execution of an inter-governmental agreement with
150-2000 5-22-00 Grant County addressing the consolidation of law enforcement
                 functions.
153-2000 7-17-00 Authorizing execution of an inter-governmental agreement with
                 Grant County addressing cooperative road maintenance.
1995-100 6-20-95 Authorizing joint Public Safety Communication Center.
123-1997 2-3-98  Amending Ord. No. 1995-100.
                 Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the County of Grant,
179-2003 12-2-03 the City of Williamstown, the City of Dry Ridge, and the City
                 of Corinth addressing the consolidation of emergency
                 management service functions.
188-2005 7-5-05  Providing for the implementation of E911 services through the
                 Kentucky State Police as established by interlocal agreement.
                 Authorizing the execution of the interlocal cooperation
236-2014 9-2-14  agreement to establish the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance
                 Services Association.
188-2005 12-6-17 Amendment #1 to interlocal agreement for implementation of
Amended          E911 services through Kentucky State Police.
                 Updating the interlocal agreement with Grant County addressing
272-2019 5-7-19  cooperative road maintenance between the city and Grant
                 County.
                
 
TABLE 6: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject
personnel matters as enacted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date    Subject
19-87    4-16-87 Setting compensation for Mayor and City Councilmembers at
                 $25.00 per month.
24-87    7-9-87  Approving participation in the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                 Management Association General Insurance Trust.
57-1989  8-1-89  Authorizing and directing participation in the County Employes
                 Retirement System, effective November 1, 1989.
103-1996 3-5-96  Setting compensation for City Councilmembers at $500 per year;
                 and compensation for Mayor at $1,500 per year.
149-2000 5-18-00 Setting compensation for City Councilmembers at $1,200 per
                 year; and compensation for Mayor at $8,000 per year.
212-2010 6-1-10  Setting compensation for various city positions.
233-2013 12-3-13 Setting compensation for various city positions.
245-2015 12-1-15 Setting compensation for various city positions.
246-2015 1-5-16  Setting compensation for various city positions.
249-2016 3-8-16  Setting compensation for various city positions.
266-2019 3-5-19  Amending the city personnel ordinance.
268-2019 4-2-19  Setting compensation for the City Code Enforcement Officer.
275-2019 8-16-19 Setting compensation for the city Alcohol Beverage Control
                 Administrator.
293-2021 4-13-21 Setting hours and pay classification for the City Code
                 Enforcement Officer.
294-2021 4-27-21 Setting compensation for the City Code Enforcement Officer.
                 Combining duties and responsibilities of the City Alcoholic
295-2021 4-27-21 Beverage Control Administrator and the City Code Enforcement
                 Officer.
                
 
TABLE 7: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject streets
and other public way matters as enacted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
222-58   2-15-58  Authorizing improvements on Sayers Street, Harlan Street, and
                  the municipal parking lot.
1-1961   7-7-61   Authorizing improvements of sidewalks on both sides of Main
                  Street.
49-1989  2-7-89   Reducing speed limit on Highway 1548 from 55 mph to 45 mph.
69-1991  3-5-91   Closing a public way known as Depot Street in the city
                  limits.
173-2003 10-16-03 Accepting Oakwood Drive as a city maintained street.
                  The street variously now known as Pinhook Drive, Pin Hook
301-2021 12-14-21 Street, Pin Hook Place and other names shall be named and
                  referred to as Pinhook Place.
                 
 
TABLE 8: TAXATION
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject ad
valorem taxation rates levied by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. Date Subject
No.
     2-   Levying taxes for the year 1962 on all real and personal property at the
3-62 12-  rate of $.70 per $100 assessed valuation.
     62
     1-   Levying taxes for the year 1964 on all real estate and personal property at
1-64 20-  the rate of $.70 per $100 assessed valuation.
     64
1-67 1-8- Levying taxes for the year 1967 on all real estate and personal property at
     67   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-68 1-6- Levying taxes for the year 1968 on all real estate and personal property at
     68   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-70 1-5- Levying taxes for the year 1970 on all real estate and personal property at
     70   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-71 3-8- Levying taxes for the year 1971 on all real estate and personal property at
     71   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-72 1-3- Levying taxes for the year 1972 on all real estate and personal property at
     72   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-73 1-3- Levying taxes for the year 1973 on all real estate and personal property at
     73   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-74 1-7- Levying taxes for the year 1974 on all real estate and personal property at
     74   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-75 1-6- Levying taxes for the year 1975 on all real estate and personal property at
     75   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-76 1-5- Levying taxes for the year 1976 on all real estate and personal property at
     76   the rate of $.24 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-77 1-3- Levying taxes for the year 1977 on all real estate and personal property at
     77   the rate of $.20 per $100 assessed valuation.
1-78 1-2- Levying taxes for the year 1978 on all real estate and personal property at
     78   the rate of $.20 per $100 assessed valuation.
9-   11-  Levying taxes for the year 1979 as follows:
1979 6-79
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.213 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.213 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
14-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1980 as follows:
1980 7-80
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.213 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.213 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
13-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1981 as follows:
1981 6-81
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.213 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.213 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
     10-
5-83 17-  Levying taxes for the year 1983 as follows:
     83
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.206 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
8-84 9-6- Levying taxes for the year 1984 as follows:
     84
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.206 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
12-  9-4- Levying taxes for the year 1985 as follows:
85   85
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.206 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
15-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1986 as follows:
86   7-86
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
27-  11-  Levying taxes for the year 1987 as follows:
1987 3-87
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
41-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1988 as follows:
1988 4-88
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
59-  9-
1989 15-  Levying taxes for the year 1989 as follows:
     89
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
64-  10-
1990 25-  Levying taxes for the year 1990 as follows:
     90
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.206 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
71-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1991 as follows:
1991 1-91
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
78-  10-
1992 27-  Levying taxes for the year 1992 as follows:
     92
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
86-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1993 as follows:
1993 5-93
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
94-  10-  Levying taxes for the year 1994 as follows:
1994 4-94
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
101- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 1995 as follows:
1995 3-95
        (1)   All real estate and personal property at $0.206 per $100 assessed
          valuation;
        (2)   Shares of capital stock of each bank or trust company at $0.269 per
          $100 fair cash market value.
111- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 1996 on all real estate and personal property at
1996 15-  the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
     96
120- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 1997 on all real estate and personal property at
1997 7-97 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
129- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 1998 on all real estate and personal property at
1998 6-98 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
143- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 1999 on all real estate and personal property at
1999 1-99 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
155- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2000 on all real estate and personal property at
2000 10-  the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
     00
161- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2001 on all real estate and personal property at
2001 2-01 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
167- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2002 on all real estate and personal property at
2002 1-02 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
175- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2003 on all real estate and personal property at
2003 14-  the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
     03
185- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2004 on all real estate and personal property at
2004 5-04 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
189- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2005 on all real estate and personal property at
2005 4-05 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
193- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2006 on all real estate and personal property at
2006 3-06 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
196- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2007 on all real estate and personal property at
2006 2-07 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
200- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2008 on all real estate and personal property at
2008 7-08 the rate of $0.206 per $100 assessed valuation.
206- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2009 on all real estate and personal property at
2009 6-09 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
215- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2010 on all real estate and personal property at
2010 5-10 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
219- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2011 on all real estate and personal property at
2011 4-11 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
224- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2012 on all real estate and personal property at
2012 2-12 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
226- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2013 on all real estate and personal property at
2016 2-12 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
237- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2014 on all real estate and personal property at
2014 7-14 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
241- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2015 on all real estate and personal property at
2015 6-15 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
252- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2016 on all real estate and personal property at
2016 4-16 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
258- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2017 on all real estate and personal property at
2017 3-17 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
264- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2018 on all real estate and personal property at
2018 2-18 the rate of $0.203 per $100 assessed valuation.
277- 9-   Levying taxes for the year 2019 on all real estate and personal property at
2019 24-  the rate of $0.190 per $100 assessed valuation.
     19
288- 10-  Levying taxes for the year 2020 on all real estate and personal property at
2020 15-  the rate of $0.178 per $100 and $0.186 per $100 respectively.
     20
297- 9-   Levying taxes for the year 2021 on all real estate and personal property at
2021 14-  the rate of $0.173 per $100 and $0.181 per $100 respectively.
     21
306- 8-   Levying taxes for the year 2022 on all real estate and personal property at
2022 25-  the rate of $0.173 per $100 and $0.181 per $100 respectively.
     22
         
 
TABLE 9: ZONING MAP CHANGES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) enacted by the city make
specific changes in the zoning of specific property pursuant to the zoning
code:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
                  Rezoning approximately 66.19 acres of land located on the
131-1998 11-10-98 south side of Crittenden-Mt. Zion Road, approximately 0.9
                  miles west of U.S. 25 from Agricultural One (A-1) to
                  Residential Two (R-2).
                  Rezoning approximately 6.6513 acres of land on the south side
140-1999 8-10-99  of Crittenden-Mt. Zion Road, 0.9 miles west of U.S. 25 from
                  Residential Two (R-2) to Residential Three (R-3).
                  Rezoning approximately 40.00 acres of land on the west side
145-1999 11-9-99  of Ruark Road (Frontage Road #9), 0.2 miles south of
                  Crittenden- Mt. Zion Road from R-3 to RMHP.
                  Rezoning approximately 1.5606 acres of land being part of
156-2000 10-10-00 Lots 13 & 14 of the Dalton Place Subdivision and a parcel of
                  land owned by Phillip Dalton from R-3 to CBD.
158-2001 2-6-01   Rezoning approximately 7.5 acres of land lying and being on
                  Violet Road from A1 to HC.
                  Rezoning approximately 196.67 acres of land lying and being
169-2003 3-4-03   on the west side of Ruark, 0.6 miles south of Crittenden-Mt.
                  Zion Road (KY #2942) from Agricultural One (A-1) to
                  Residential- Two (R-2).
                  Rezoning approximately 1.6296 acres of land lying and being
171-2003 5-6-03   on the southwest side of Violet Road (KY. Rt. 1548) on the
                  southeast side of Bradford Lane from Residential-Two (R-2) to
                  Neighborhood Commercial (NC).
                  Rezoning approximately 2.70 acres of land (3.08 acres
                  inclusive of rights-of-way) at the north east intersection of
178-2003 10-16-03 Center Street and North Main Street (US 25) and owned by
                  Darrell Smith from Residential-Three (R-3) to Neighborhood
                  Commercial (NC).
                  Rezoning approximately 136.7173 acres of land located on the
180-2003 12-5-03  south side of Violet Road (KY Rt. 1548) from Agriculture-One
                  (A-1) to Residential-Two (R-2).
                  Rezoning approximately .0715 acres of land situated on the
194-2007 4-3-07   south side of Crittenden Mt. Zion Road from Agriculture-One
                  (A-1) to Residential-One-E (R-1-E).
                  Rezoning approximately 5.0 acres, lying on the west side of
267-2019 3-5-19   U.S. 25 (Main Street) and the south side of Case Lane, from
                  Agricultural (A-1) to Highway Commercial (HC).
                  Rezoning and located at N. Main Street (PIDN Number 042-00-
304-2022 6-21-22  00-033.00) from Agricultural One (A-1) and Highway Commercial
                  (HC) to Industrial One (I-1).
                  Rezoning land located at 200, 202, 204, 208, 212 N. Main
305-2022 6-21-22  Street and several parcels on Violet Road that do not include
                  street numbers from Residential Mobile Home Park (RMHP) and
                  Residential Three (R-3) to Highway Commercial (HC).
312-2023 1-25-23  Rezoning land located at 725 Lebanon Road from Agricultural
                  One (A-1) to Highway Commercial (HC).
                 
 
TABLE 10: MISCELLANEOUS
 
Ord. No. Date   Subject
2-82     4-6-82 Accepting composite index of ordinances prepared by William
                Kathman Jr. on March 2, 1982
219-57   4-8-57 Consenting to including the city within the boundaries of the
                Bullock Pen Water District.
               
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS SECTION CODE SECTION
KRS SECTION             CODE SECTION
§ 228 Ky. Const        21.101, 
                        22.202
Ch. 13B                 63.005
15.409                  24.107
18A.225(2)              61.003
Ch. 31                  24.107
42.450 - 42.495         23.004
45.570 – 45.640       23.115
Ch. 45A                 23.111, 
                        24.107
45A.175 – 45A.205     23.109
45A.343                 23.101
45A.345                 23.100
45A.345-45A.060         23.101
45A.355                 23.111
45A.360(2)              23.102
                        23.100,
45A.365                 23.104,
                        23.117,
                        23.119
                        23.100,
45A.370                 23.105,
                        23.117
45A.370(3)(a), (b), (c) 23.105
                        23.100,
45A.375                 23.105,
                        23.110,
                        23.117
                        23.100,
45A.380                 23.106,
                        23.117
45A.385                 23.100,
                        23.107
45A.390                 23.104
45A.395                 23.104,
                        23.113
45A.400                 23.103
45A.405                 23.109
45A.410                 23.109
45A.415                 23.104
45A.420                 23.117
45A.430                 23.109
45A.435                 23.109
45A.440                 23.109
45A.455                 23.120
45A.455(4)              23.119
45A.990                 23.117
Ch. 56                  24.107
Ch. 58                  30.001
61.168                  24.107
61.19                   24.107
61.805                  25.105
61.805(1)               25.001
61.805(2)               25.001
61.805(3)               25.001
61.805(4)               25.001
61.805(5)               25.001
61.810                  26.406
61.815                  25.101
61.820                  25.102
61.820                  25.104
61.823                  25.103
61.826                  25.104
61.840                  24.104
61.846                  25.105
61.848                  25.105
61.850                  25.105
                        24.001,
61.870                  24.108,
                        26.410
61.870 - 61.882         21.102
61.872 – 61.884       26.105
61.872(1)               24.100
61.872(2)               24.100
61.872(3)               24.100
61.872(4)               24.101
61.872(5)               24.102
61.872(6)               24.103
61.874                  24.108
61.874(5)               24.100
61.874(6)               24.100
61.878                  24.001,
                        24.107
61.878(1)(i)            25.100
61.880                  24.104
61.882                  24.104
61.884                  24.106,
                        26.410
Ch. 62                  20.003
Ch. 64                  21.004
65.003                  26.003
65.8801 - 65.8839       22.202
65.8815(5)              22.202
Ch. 78                  21.004
82.082                  26.003
Ch. 83A                 21.004
83A.010(10)             10.002
83A.010(11)             10.002
83A.010(5)              10.002
83A.010(6)              10.002
83A.010(7)              10.002
83A.010(8)              10.002
83A.010(9)              10.002
83A.030                 20.001
                        20.103,
83A.040                 20.105,
                        20.206
83A.040(1)              20.100 -
                        20.102
83A.040(4)              20.200 -
                        20.202
83A.040(5)              20.203
83A.040(6)              20.203
83A.040(7)              20.104
83A.045(2)(b)(1)        20.002
83A.050                 20.002
83A.060                 20.205,
                        81.001
83A.060(12), (13)       20.210
83A.060(14)             20.210
83A.065                 10.002,
                        10.999
83A.070                 20.006
83A.080                 26.004
83A.080(3), (4)         20.002
                        20.001,
83A.130                 20.103,
                        20.208,
                        20.209
83A.130(10)             20.105,
                        20.106
83A.165                 20.002
91A.010(6)              23.001
91A.010(70)             23.001
91A.010(8)              10.002
91A.020                 23.002
91A.030                 23.003
91A.040                 23.004
91A.060                 23.005
100.207                 81.001
108.100(4)              28.100
108.105                 28.100
108.110                 28.100
Ch. 118                 20.002
131.010(6)              61.999
131.190                 24.107
Ch. 136                 62.001
Ch. 154                 24.107
154.50-301 – 154.50-3422.101
154.50-316              22.100,
                        22.102
154.50-326              22.102
154.50-340              22.103
174.100                 41.100
174.100(1)              41.101
174.100(2)              41.102
174.100(3)              41.103
174.100(4)              41.104
177.905 – 177.950     Ch. 81, Art IX, 9.9
189.010                 40.001
189.010(19)             40.001
189.285                 40.001
189.330(4)              40.250
189.337                 40.001
189.338                 40.054
189.378                 40.400,
                        40.999
189.378(1)              40.001
189.390                 40.001,
                        40.052
189.394                 40.999
189.450                 40.052,
                        40.601
189.570(7)              40.101
189.580                 40.150
189.810                 40.052
189.910                 40.001,
                        40.400
189.910 – 189.950     40.052
189.920                 40.400
189.940                 40.052
189.940(7)              40.102
189.990(1)              40.999
224.1-010(30)           40.601
224.43-315              40.601
227.700                 72.100
227.702                 72.100
227.704                 72.100
227.706                 72.100
227.708                 72.100
227.710                 72.101
227.715                 72.101,
                        72.102
227.715(3) - (6)        72.102
227.720                 72.103
227.730                 72.104
227.750                 72.105
227.990(4)              72.999
Ch. 237                 52.001
                        63.001 -
Ch. 241 - 244           63.005,
                        63.013,
                        63.016
Ch. 241                 63.016
241.100                 63.005
241.200                 63.016
Ch. 243                 63.004,
                        63.016
243.030                 63.013
243.070                 63.004,
                        63.020
243.075                 63.004,
                        63.020
243.360                 63.013
243.450                 63.018
243.490                 63.018
243.500                 63.018
243.850                 63.025
Ch. 244                 63.016
244.040                 63.007
244.090(2)              63.007
244.130                 63.010
Ch. 337                 23.116
Ch. 376                 23.112
381.770                 50.004
Ch. 424                 20.210,
                        23.004
424.170                 63.013
424.220                 23.004
446.010(1)              10.002
446.010(9)              10.002
446.010(10)             10.002
446.010(13)             10.002
446.010(14)             10.002
446.010(17)             10.002
446.010(18)             10.002
446.010(23)             10.002
446.010(25)             10.002
446.010(26)             10.002,
                        23.100
446.010(27)             10.002
446.010(28)             10.002
446.010(31)             10.002
446.010(33)             10.002
446.010(37)             10.002
446.010(39)             10.002
446.010(43)             10.002
446.010(46)             10.002
446.010(47)             10.002
446.010(49)             10.002
446.010(55)             10.002
446.010(7)              10.002
446.010(8)              10.002
446.020(1)              10.003
446.020(2)              10.003
446.030                 10.003
446.080(3)              10.003
446.080(4)              10.003
446.090                 10.005
446.110                 10.006
532.090(1)              10.002, 
                        52.999
532.090(1)              50.999
534.040(2)(a)           10.002
534.040(2)(a)           52.999
534.040(2)(c)           10.002
Chs. 600 - 645          52.104
610.200 - 610.280       52.104
                        
 
SUMMARY OF ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description Code Section
Ord. No.         Date           Description             Code Section
                                Prohibiting sale and
214-56           12-10-56       use of fireworks within 72.101
                                city limits.
215-56           12-10-56       Prohibiting burning and Not Included
                                dumping of trash.
                                Providing for
217-56           12-10-56       employment of City      Not Included
                                Attorney.
                                Including city in
219-57           4-8-57         Bullock Pen Water       Table 10
                                District boundaries.
                                Authorizing fee to City
220-57           9-6-57         Clerk from fines levied Not Included
                                in police courts.
221-58           12-9-58        Authorizing purchase of Table 5
                                certain real estate.
                                Authorizing
222-58           2-15-58        improvements on certain Table 7
                                streets.
223-58           12-6-57        Setting salary of       Not Included
                                police judge.
                                Authorizing
226-59           8-7-59         construction of         Table 5
                                waterworks system.
                                Designating time and
227-60           2-5-60         place of regular        Repealed
                                meetings.
228-60           3-11-60        Imposing occupational   Repealed
                                license tax.
229-60           7-1-60         Regulating parking of   40.999
                                automobiles.
231-60           11-4-60        Setting salary of       Not Included
                                police court judge.
232-60           11-4-60        Providing for annual    28.001
                                tax assessment.
234              3-3-61         Adopting budget for     Not Included
                                year 1961.
1-61             7-6-61         Providing for sidewalk  Table 7
                                improvements.
                                Regarding real property
                                owned jointly by and
2-61             11-3-61        between city and        Table 5
                                Volunteer Fire
                                Department.
                                Adopting Grant County
3-62             2-12-62        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1962.
                                Authorizing issuance of
4-62             9-10-62        Municipal Building      Table 3
                                Revenue Bonds.
                                Providing for
5-62             2-12-62        employment of City      Not Included
                                Attorney.
6-63             5-13-63        Imposing license tax on Repealed
                                insurance companies.
                                Authorizing contract
8-63             7-8-63         providing for           Table 5
                                additional street
                                lighting system.
9-63             8-12-63        Imposing curfew on      Repealed
                                minors.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-64             1-20-64        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1964.
2-64             9-14-64        Amending license tax on Repealed
                                insurance companies.
3-64             2-17-64        Authorizing changes to  Table 5
                                street lighting system.
                                Providing minimum
4-64             - -            standards for           Repealed
                                construction of
                                buildings.
5-64             9-14-64        Amending license tax on Repealed
                                insurance companies.
2-66             4-11-66        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
3-66             7-11-66        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-67             1-8-67         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1967.
5-67             7-10-67        Adopting zoning         Repealed
                                regulations.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-68             1-8-68         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1968.
1-69             9-6-69         Granting for sale a gas Table 4
                                transmission franchise.
2-69             9-8-69         Accepting bid for       Table 4
                                electrical franchise.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-70             1-5-70         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1970.
                                Providing for deposits
2-70             1-5-70         by operators of trailer Ch. 71
                                courts.
3-70             3-2-70         Amending license fees   Repealed
                                on certain businesses.
                                Prohibiting the keeping
4-70             5-14-70        of livestock within     Repealed
                                city limits.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-71             3-8-71         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1971.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-72             1-3-72         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1972.
3-72             11-6-72        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-73             1-3-73         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1973.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-74             1-7-74         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1974.
2-74             11-4-74        Controlling dogs.       51.100, 51.103, 51.999
                                Adopting Grant County
1-75             1-6-75         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1975.
2-75             1-6-75         Regulating business     Not Included
                                hours.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-76             1-5-76         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1976.
2-76             5-3-76         Imposing occupational   Repealed
                                license taxes.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-77             1-3-77         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1977.
2-77             5-2-77         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
3-77             7-11-77        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
4-77             12-5-77        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
5-77             12-5-77        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
                                Adopting Grant County
1-78             1-2-78         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1978.
2-78             1-4-78         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
3-78             1-4-78         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
4-78             6-12-78        Amending planning and   Table 1
                                zoning ordinance.
5-78             8-1-78         Banning public          50.003-50.005
                                nuisances.
6-78             10-3-78        Regulating yard and     53.001, 53.999
                                garage sales.
                                Authorizing issuance of
7-79             4-17-79        Municipal Revenue       Table 3
                                Bonds.
8-79             10-27-79       Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
                                Adopting Grant County   Table 8, 28.001-
9-79             11-6-79        assessment and levying  28.003, 28.999
                                taxes for year 1979.
10-79            11-6-79        Regulating electrical   Repealed
                                wiring.
11-79            11-27-79       Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
12-79            12-4-79        Granting a garbage      Table 4
                                franchise.
                                Treating owner-occupied
                                farm land zoned A-1 and
13-79            12-4-79        used solely for farm    Not Included
                                purposes as a house and
                                lot
                                Adopting Grant County
14-80            10-7-80        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1980.
                                Establishing offices of
1-81             2-3-81         City Clerk and City     Repealed
                                Treasurer.
2-81             - -            Establishing weight     Repealed
                                limits on city streets.
                                Regulating construction
                                of buildings and
3-81             2-3-81         establishing office of  Repealed
                                city building
                                inspector.
4-81             6-2-81         Adopting Comprehensive  80.001
                                Plan.
                                Establishing office of
5-81             6-2-81         City Clerk and City     21.100-21.102
                                Treasurer.
                                Repealing Ord. 2-1981
6-81             6-2-81         and establishing weight 40.700-40.703, 40.999
                                limits on city streets.
                                Regulating construction
                                of buildings and
7-81             6-2-81         establishing office of  70.100-70.104, 70.999
                                city building
                                inspector.
8-81             6-2-81         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1981-1982.
9-81             8-4-81         Increasing license tax  Repealed
                                on insurance companies.
10-81            9-1-81         Establishing a police   22.001-22.005
                                department.
                                Establishing control
11-81            9-1-81         regarding harboring of  51.001, 51.002, 51.999
                                animals and wildlife.
12-81            Not passed                             
                                Adopting Grant County
13-81            10-6-81        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1981.
                                Providing for penalties
14-81            10-6-81        for non- payment of     Repealed
                                license taxes.
                                Providing a personnel
1-82             4-6-82         and pay classification  27.001-27.004
                                plan.
2-82             4-6-82         Approving composite     Table 10
                                index of ordinances.
3-82             5-4-82         Adopting Kentucky       70.001
                                Building Code.
                                Adopting Grant County
4-82             10-5-82        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1982.
                                Adopting specifications
5-82             11-3-82        pertaining to utilities 41.001, Appendix A
                                and street
                                improvements.
1-83             - -            Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1983-1984.
2-83             6-10-83        Imposing occupational   60.001-60.008, 60.999
                                license taxes.
3-83             10-4-83        Adopting zoning code.   Ch. 81
4-83             10-4-83        Granting a CATV         Table 4
                                franchise.
                                Adopting Grant Count
5-83             10-17-83       assessment and levying  Table 8, 28.003
                                taxes for year 1983.
6-84             6-12-84        Providing for street    40.300, 40.999
                                parking.
7-84             6-12-84        Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1984-1985.
                                Adopting Grant County
8-84             9-6-84         assessment and levying  Table 8, 28.003
                                taxes for year 1984.
9-84             11-1-84        Imposing a license fee  61.001-61.005, 61.999
                                on insurance companies.
10-85            4-2-85         Granting a CATV         Table 4
                                franchise.
11-85            6-5-85         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1985-1986.
                                Adopting Grant County
12-85            9-4-85         assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1985.
                                Granting and offering
13-85            10-2-85        for sale an electric    Table 4
                                transmission franchise.
14-86            6-5-86         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1986- 1987.
                                Adopting Grant County
15-86            10-7-86        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1986.
                                Setting procedure for
16-86            10-4-86        selection of mayor pro- 20.208
                                tem.
17-86            11-4-86        Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
                                Granting and offering
18-1987          2-3-87         for sale an electric    Table 4
                                transmission franchise.
                                Setting compensation
19-1987          4-16-87        for Mayor and City      Table 6
                                Council.
20-1987          5-5-87         Accepting bid for sale  Table 4
                                of electric franchise.
21-1987          6-2-87         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1987- 1988.
                                Authorizing execution
                                of an interlocal
22-1987          6-2-87         cooperation agreement   Table 5
                                to establish the
                                Kentucky Municipal Risk
                                Management Association.
23-1987          7-7-87         Amending insurance      61.006
                                provisions.
                                Authorizing
24-1987          7-9-87         participation in the    Table 6
                                Kentucky Municipal Risk
                                Management Association.
                                                        30.001-30.006, 30.010-
                                                        30.015, 30.030, 30.031,
25-1987          9-22-87        Establishing sewer      30.040-30.044, 30.060-
                                system provisions.      30.069, 30.080-30.087,
                                                        30.100-30.110, 30.121,
                                                        30.122
                                Providing penalties for
26-1987          9-22-87        violations of Ord. 25-  30.999
                                87.
                                Adopting Grant County
27-1987          11-3-87        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1987.
                                Establishing fees
28-1987          11-3-87        charged by Planning     Repealed
                                Commission.
29-1988          3-1-88         Allowing reduction of   30.112
                                sewer tap-on fees.
30-1988          5-17-88        Intending to annex      Repealed
                                certain property.
31-1988          5-17-88        Intending to annex      Repealed
                                certain property.
32-1988          5-17-88        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
33-1988          5-17-88        Intending to annex      Repealed
                                certain property.
34-1988          5-17-88        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
35-1988          6-7-88         Amending sewer          Repealed
                                services.
36-1988          6-7-88         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1988-1989.
                                Repealing Ord. 35-1988
37-1988          8-9-88         and setting sewer       30.102, Table 1, 30.106
                                service charges and
                                tap-on fees.
38-1988          9-6-88         Repealing Ord. 33-1988. Table 1
39-1988          10-4-88        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
40-1988          11-8-88        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Adopting Grant County
41-1988          10-4-88        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1988.
42-1988          10-4-88        Amending zoning code.   Repealed
43-1988          10-4-88        Intending to annex      Repealed
                                certain property.
44-1988          12-6-88        Repealing Ord. 30-1988. Table 1
45-1988          12-6-88        Repealing Ord. 31-1988. Table 1
46-1988          1-3-88         Adopting police rules   22.050
                                and regulations.
47-1988          1-3-89         Pertaining to non-      20.002
                                partisan elections.
48-1989          2-7-89         Repealing Ord. 43-1988. Table 1
49-1989          2-7-89         Reducing speed limit on Table 7
                                certain road.
51-1989          2-16-89        Amending sewer rates.   30.100
                                Granting and offering
52-1989          4-4-89         for sale a gas          Table 4
                                franchise.
53-1989          4-4-89         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
54-1989          6-13-89        Accepting bid for sale  Table 4
                                of franchise.
55-1989          6-13-89        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
56-1989          6-13-89        Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1989-1990.
                                Authorizing
57-1989          8-1-89         participation in the    Table 6
                                County Employees
                                Retirement System.
58-1989          Left out                               
                                Adopting Grant County
59-1989          9-15-89        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1989.
                                Authorizing issuance of
60-1989          10-18-89       Lease Revenue Bond      Table 3
                                Anticipation Notes,
                                Series 1989.
61-1990          4-3-90         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
62-1990          6-19-90        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
63-1990          6-19-90        Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1990-1991.
                                Adopting Grant County
64-1990          10-25-90       assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1990.
                                Establishing procedures
65-1990          12-4-90        for shutting off sewer  Repealed
                                service for delinquent
                                accounts.
                                Setting penalties for
66-1990          12-4-90        noncompliance with Ord. 30.999
                                25-1987 implementing a
                                sewer system.
                                Providing for deposits
67-1990          12-4-90        by consumers for sewer  30.113
                                services.
                                Establishing procedures
68-1990          12-4-90        for water and sewer     30.114-30.117
                                service.
69-1991          3-5-91         Closing a certain       Table 7
                                street.
70-1991          6-4-91         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1991-1992.
                                Adopting Grant County
71-1991          10-1-91        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1991.
                                Amending coin operated
72-1992          4-7-92         machines to vending     60.002
                                machines.
73-1992          2-4-92         Advertising for sale of Table 4
                                a franchise.
74-1992          1-7-92         Establishing 911        Repealed
                                service.
                                Amending Ord. 73-1992
75-1992          4-7-92         regarding sale of a     Table 4
                                franchise.
76-1992          10-6-92        Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
77-1992          6-23-92        Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1992-1993.
                                Adopting Grant County
78-1992          10-27-92       assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1992.
79-1993          1-12-93        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Repealing Ord. 65-1990
                                and setting procedures
80-1993          4-6-93         for water shutoff for   30.105, Table 1
                                delinquent sewer
                                accounts.
81-1993          4-6-93         Amending tap on fees.   30.106
82-1993          6-1-93         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1993-1994.
                                Relating to the
83-1993          8-3-93         establishment of a      22.100-22.104
                                local industrial
                                development authority.
84-1993          9-7-93         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
85-1993          Void                                   
                                Adopting Grant County
86-1993          10-5-93        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1993.
87-1993          Void                                   
88-1993          12-7-93        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Authorizing agreement
89-1993          1-11-94        for formation of joint  Table 5
                                local industrial
                                development authority.
90-1994          5-3-94         Establishing nuisance   50.001, 50.003- 50.005,
                                provisions.             50.999
91-1994          6-7-94         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1994-1995.
92-1994          7-19-94        Amending tap-on fees.   30.106
93-1994          10-4-94        Establishing code of    Repealed
                                ethics.
                                Adopting Grant County
94-1994          10-4-94        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1994.
                                Authorizing issuance of
95-1994          12-8-94        Lease Revenue Bond      Table 3
                                Anticipation Renewal
                                Notes, Series 1994.
96-1994          12-8-94        Establishing code of    Ch. 26
                                ethics.
97-1994          12-8-94        Repealing Ord. 93-1994. Table 1
                                Establishing speed
98-1995          4-4-95         limit on residential    40.200, 40.201, 40.999
                                streets.
99-1995          6-6-95         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1995-1996.
                                Establishing joint
                                Grant County Public
100-1995         6-20-95        Safety Communication    T.S.O. 5
                                Center/Emergency
                                Service Record Center.
                                Adopting Grant County
101-1995         10-3-95        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1995.
                                Establishing minimum
102-1995         11-7-95        standards for           70.200-70.207, 70.999
                                electrical wiring
                                installations.
                                Setting compensation
103-1996         3-5-96         for Mayor and City      Table 6
                                Council.
104-1996         Vetoed                                 
                                Relating to the
105-1996         5-7-96         installation and costs  Repealed
                                of street lights.
106-1996         6-4-96         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
107-1996         6-4-96         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1996-1997.
108-1996         7-9-96         Amending building       70.101, 70.104, 70.999
                                permit provisions.
109-1996         9-10-96        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
110-1996         10-1-96        Imposing bank franchise Ch. 62
                                and local deposit tax.
                                Adopting Granting
111-1996         10-15-96       County Assessment and   Table 8
                                levying taxes for year
                                1996.
112-1996         12-3-96        Regulating concealed    52.001, 52.999
                                weapons.
                                Relating to the care
113-1996         1-7-97         and maintenance of      41.200, 41.999
                                sidewalks.
114-1997         3-4-97         Amending license taxes  60.002
                                on certain businesses.
115-1997         4-3-97         Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
116-1997         4-1-97         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
117-1997         4-1-97         Amending building       70.100
                                permit provisions.
118-1997         7-1-97         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
119-1997         6-3-97         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1997-1998.
                                Adopting Grant County
120-1997         10-7-97        Assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1997.
                                Establishing fees
121-1998         1-6-98         charged by the Planning Repealed
                                Commission.
                                Prohibiting the keeping
122-1998         1-6-98         of dangerous or vicious 51.150, 51.151, 51.999
                                dogs.
                                Amending Grant County
123-1997         2-3-98         Public Safety           Not Included
                                Communication Center
                                provisions.
124-1998         2-3-98         Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
125-1998         3-3-98         Amending annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1997-1998.
126-1998         5-5-98         Relating to garbage     31.001, 31.002, 31.999
                                dumpsters.
127-1998         6-2-98         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1998-1999.
                                Adopting an anti-
128-1998         7-16-98        monotony code regarding 70.300-70.302
                                residential units and
                                structures.
                                Adopting Grant County
129-1998         10-6-98        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 1998.
130-1998         10-6-98        Establishing curfew     Not Included
                                hours.
131-1998         11-10-98       Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
                                Requiring building
132-1999         3-9-99         permits for commercial  70.150-70.153, 70.999
                                and industrial
                                construction.
133-1999         2-9-99         Amending tap-on fees.   30.106
134-1999         3-9-99         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
135-1999         6-8-99         Intending to annex      Table 2
                                certain property.
136-1999         6-8-99         Amending annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1998-1999.
137-1999         6-8-99         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1999-2000.
138-1999         7-13-99        Amending sewer rates.    
139-1999         7-13-99        Amending parking        40.999
                                violation fines.
140-1999         8-10-99        Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
141-1999         9-7-99         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
142-1999         8-10-99        Amending E911 charges.  Not Included
                                Amending
- -              6-8-99         intergovernmental       Table 5
                                agreement.
                                Adopting Grant County
143-1999         10-1-99        assessment and levying  Table 8, 28.003
                                taxes for year 1999.
144-1999         10-12-99       Regulating yard and     53.001, 53.999
                                garage sales.
145-1999         11-9-99        Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
146-2000         2-8-00         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
147-2000         3-14-00        Establishing rates for  31.100, 31.101
                                solid waste collection.
148-2000         6-13-00        Granting a CATV         Table 4
                                franchise.
                                Amending compensation
149-2000         5-18-00        for Mayor and City      Table 6
                                Council.
                                Authorizing
150-2000         5-22-00        intergovernmental       Table 5
                                agreement with Grant
                                County.
151-2000         6-13-00        Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2000-2001.
152-2000         6-13-00        Amending annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 1999-2000.
                                Authorizing interlocal
153-2000         7-17-00        agreement with Grant    Table 5
                                County.
154-2000         Failed to pass                         
                                Adopting Grant County
155-2000         10-10-00       assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2000.
156-2000         10-10-00       Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
157-2000         11-14-00       Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
158-2001         2-6-01         Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
159-2001         7-10-01        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
160-2001         6-5-01         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2001-2002.
                                Adopting Grant County
161-2001         10-2-01        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2001.
162-2001         11-6-01        Amending sewer          30.114
                                connection fees.
163-2001         12-4-01        Amending the User Fee   30.100
                                Schedule for sewers.
                                Adopting the new code
164-2002         5-7-02         of ordinance for the    Front
                                city.
165-2002         6-4-02         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2002-2003.        
166-2002         6-4-02         Amending sign           Repealed
                                regulations.
                                Adopting Grant County
167-2002         10-1-02        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2002.
168-2002         2-11-03        Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
169-2003         3-4-03         Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
170-2003         4-2-03         Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
171-2003         5-6-03         Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
172-2003         6-3-03         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2003-2004.        
173-2003         10-16-03       Acceptance of a street. Table 7
174-2003         6-5-03         Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
                                Adopting Grant County
175-2003         10-14-03       assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2003.
176-2003         9-2-03         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
177-2003         9-5-03         Amending the zoning     Repealed
                                code.
178-2003         10-16-03       Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
179-2003         12-2-03        Entering into an        Table 5
                                interlocal agreement.
180-2003         12-5-03        Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
181-2004         3-8-04         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
182-2004         5-4-04         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
183-2004         6-1-04         Adopting a new zoning   81.001, Table 1
                                ordinance.
184-2004         6-1-04         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2004-2005.
                                Adopting Grant County
185-2004         10-5-04        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2004.
186-2005         6-7-05         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2005-2006.        
                                Establishing the rate
187-2005         5-3-05         to be charged for solid 31.100, 31.101
                                waste collection.
188-2005         7-5-05         Implementing interlocal Table 5
                                agreement.
                                Adopting Grant County
189-2005         10-4-05        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2005.
190-2005         Void                                   
191-2006         6-6-06         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2006-2007.
                                Streetlight
192-2006         8-1-06         construction in         41.050, 41.051, 41.99,
                                subdivision             Table 1
                                developments.
                                Adopting Grant County
193-2006         10-3-06        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2006.
194-2007         4-3-07         Amending the zoning     Table 9
                                map.
195-2007         6-5-07         Adopting annual budget  Not Included
                                for FY 2007-2008.
                                Adopting Grant County
196-2007         10-2-07        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2007.
197-2007         1-8-08         Amending dumpster       31.001
                                regulations.
                                Adopting the annual
198-2008         6-3-08         budget for FY 2008-     Not Included
                                2009.
                                Enacting and adopting
199-2008         9-2-08         the S-1 Supplement to   Front
                                Code of Ordinances.
                                Adopting Grant County
200-2008         10-7-08        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2008.
201-2009         4-7-09         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
202-2009         4-7-09         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
203-2009         11-3-09        Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
204-2009         4-7-09         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
                                Adopting the annual
205-2009         6-2-09         budget for FY 2009-     Not Included
                                2010.
                                Adopting Grant County
206-2009         10-6-09        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2008.
207-2009         11-3-09        Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
208-2010         3-2-10         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
209-2010         3-2-10         Amending nuisance       50.001 - 50.007, 50.999
                                ordinance.
210-2010         Did not pass   Compensation for Mayor.  
211-2010         Void           Personnel policy and     
                                procedures.
212-2010         6-1-10         Amending personal       Table 6
                                policies.
                                Adopting the annual
213-2010         6-1-10         budget for FY 2010-     Not Included
                                2011.
                                Amending the abatement
214-2010         8-3-10         program in the nuisance 50.004
                                ordinance
                                Adopting Grant County
215-2010         10-5-10        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2010.
                                Adopting the annual
216-2011         6-7-11         budget for FY 2011-     Not Included
                                2012 (voided).
                                Adopting the annual
217-2011         6-9-11         budget for FY 2011-     Not Included
                                2012.
218-2011         8-2-11         Adopting Ordinance.     Adopting Ordinance
                                Adopting Grant County
219-2011         10-4-11        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2011.
220-2011         10-4-11        Incentive program.      21.004
221-2012         4-3-12         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
                                Adopting the annual
222-2012         6-5-12         budget for FY 2012-     Not Included
                                2013.
223-2012         6-6-12         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
                                Adopting Grant County
224-2012         10-2-12        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2012.
                                Adopting the annual
225-2013         6-4-13         budget for FY 2013-     Not Included
                                2014.
                                Adopting Grant County
226-2013         10-2-13        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2013.
227-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
228-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
229-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
230-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
231-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
232-2013         9-4-13         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
233-2013         12-3-13        Amending personnel      Table 6
                                policies.
234-2014         5-6-14         Annexing certain        Table 2
                                property.
                                Adopting the annual
235-2014         6-10-14        budget for FY 2014-     Not Included
                                2015.
236-2014         9-2-14         Implementing interlocal Table 5
                                agreement.
                                Adopting Grant County
237-2014         10-7-14        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2014.
                                Adopting the annual
238-2015         6-2-15         budget for FY 2015-     Not Included
                                2016.
239-2015         6-2-15         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
240-2015         8-4-15         Amending garbage rates. 31.100
                                Adopting Grant County
241-2015         10-6-15        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes for year 2015.
242-2015         10-6-15        Granting a CATV         Table 4
                                franchise.
243-2015         10-7-15        Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
244-2015         10-7-15        Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
245-2015         12-1-15        Amending personnel      Table 6
                                policies.
246-2015         1-5-16         Amending personnel      Table 6
                                policies.
247-2016         3-8-16         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
                                Adding alcoholic
248-2016         3-8-16         beverage license        63.001-63.027
                                chapter.
249-2016         3-8-16         Amending personnel      Table 6
                                policies.
250-2016         5-3-16         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code.
                                Adopting the annual
251-2016         6-7-16         budget for FY 2016-     Not Included
                                2017.
                                Adopting Grant County
252-2016         10-4-16        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
253-2016         10-5-16        Amending zoning code    Not Included
254-2016         1-3-17         Adopting S-3 Supplement Adopting Ordinance
                                Adopting the annual
255-2017         6-6-17         budget for FY 2017-     Not Included
                                2018
256-2017         5-2-17         Granting a gas and      Table 4
                                electric franchise
257-2017         8-1-17         Changing Sayers Street  Not Included
                                to one-way
                                Adopting Grant County
258-2017         10-3-17        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
259-2017         10-10-17       Establishing Code       22.202
                                Enforcement Board
188-2005 Amended 12-6-17        Amendment to E911       Table 5
                                agreement
                                Adopting the annual
260-2018         6-5-18         budget for FY 2018-     Not Included
                                2018
261-2018         6-5-18         Amending zoning code    Not Included
262-2018         5-22-18        Property Maintenance    73.001-73.020, 73.030-
                                Code                    73.046, 73.999
263-2018         6-6-18         Amending the zoning     Not Included
                                code
263-2018         6-6-18         Amending the zoning     Table 8
                                code
265-2018         11-6-18        Adopting S-4 Supplement Adopting Ordinance
266-2019         3-5-19         Amending the city       Table 6
                                personnel ordinance
267-2019         3-5-19         Amending the zoning map Table 9
                                Establishing salary for
268-2019         4-2-19         City Code Enforcement   Table 6
                                Officer
                                Establishing membership
269-2019         4-2-19         in a joint local        Not Included
                                industrial development
                                authority
                                Cost of living
270-2019         5-7-19         adjustment for council  Not Included
                                members
271-2019         5-7-19         Amending the annual     Not Included
                                budget for FY 2018-2019
                                Amending an interlocal
                                agreement with Grant
272-2019         5-7-19         County regarding        Table 5
                                cooperative road
                                maintenance
273-2019         6-18-19        Adopting the annual     Not Included
                                budget for FY 2019-2020
                                Rates for copies of
274-2019         8-6-19         city documents and      24.108
                                records
                                Establishing salary for
275-2019         8-6-19         Alcohol Beverage        Table 6
                                Control Administrator
                                Establishing the
276-2019         8-6-19         bidding threshold for   Repealed
                                city expenditures
                                Adopting Grant County
277-2019         9-24-19        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
278-2019         10-1-19        Peer to peer short term 64.001-64.006
                                home rentals
279-2019         12-3-19        Amending the annual     Not Included
                                budget for FY 2019-2020
280-2019         Did not pass   Nuisance code           Not Included
                                amendments
281-2019         12-3-19        Juvenile protection     52.100-52.105, 52.999
                                curfew
                                Adopting Grant County
288-2020         10-15-20       assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
                                Adopting the Emergency
289-2021         2-9-21         Service Ambulance       28.100, 28.101
                                District
                                Receipt and
290-2021         - -21          disbursement of         Not included
                                economic recovery funds
                                as a result of COVID-19
291-2021         1-14-21        Repealing Ord. 276-2019 Table 1
292-2021         1-14-21        Amending garbage rates. 31.100
                                Setting hours and pay
293-2021         4-13-21        classification for the  Table 6
                                City Code Enforcement
                                Officer
                                Setting compensation
294-2021         4-27-21        for the City Code       Table 6
                                Enforcement Officer
                                Combining duties and
                                responsibilities for
295-2021         4-27-21        the City ABC            Table 6
                                Administrator and Code
                                Enforcement Officer
                                Amending the annual
296-2021         5-11-21        budget for FY 2020-     Not included
                                2021
                                Adopting Grant County
297-2021         9-14-21        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
                                Adopting the annual
298-2021         6-22-21        budget for FY 2021-     Not included
                                2022
299-2021         6-8-21         Speed limits            Not included
300-2021         7-13-21        Four-way stop           Not included
                                established
301-2021         12-14-21       Renaming street for     Table 7
                                clarification
                                Setting meeting time
302-2022         3-22-22        and location for City   20.208
                                Council
                                Adopting the annual
303-2022         4-26-22        budget for FY 2022-     Not included
                                2023
304-2022         6-21-22        Amending the zoning map Table 9
305-2022         6-21-22        Amending the zoning map Table 9
                                Adopting Grant County
306-2022         8-25-22        assessment and levying  Table 8
                                taxes
                                Weight restrictions for
307-2022         1-10-23        trucks and semi-        40.700
                                trailers on city
                                streets
309-2022         1-10-23        Plantings in rights-of- 52.200
                                way prohibited
310-2022         1-10-23        Amending the zoning     Not included
                                code
                                Placement of solid
311-2022         1-10-23        waste containers at     73.038
                                curb line
308-2023         1-25-23        Amending the zoning     Not included
                                code
312-2023         1-25-23        Amending the zoning map Table 9
313-2023         1-25-23        Harboring of fowl       51.003
314-2023         1-25-23        Amending garbage rates  31.100
                                Adopting the annual
315-2023         5-23-23        budget for FY 2023-     Not included
                                2024
                                Appeals to Code
316-2023         5-23-23        Enforcement Board       73.046
                                regarding property
                                maintenance
317-2023         6-13-23        Nuisance penalty        50.999
                                                      
 
 
 
