DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through
Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Daviess County shall be
designated as the Code of Daviess County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of statutes, see KRS Ch. 446
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending, or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Specific definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Daviess County, Kentucky.
      FISCAL COURT. The governing body of Daviess County, Kentucky.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Fiscal Court requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Fiscal Court shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, shall be
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY POLICIES AND FINANCE
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
33.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY POLICIES AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Enhanced 9-1-1 telephone service
   
30.02   Wrecker and vehicle storage; facility; services for the county
Finance and Revenue
   
30.15   Transient room tax for the operation of the Convention Center
   
30.16   Franchise tax on bank deposits
Fees
   
30.30   Court facility fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ENHANCED 9-1-1 TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby established enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone service
within the county, including the City of Whitesville, and outside the emergency
phone service area of the City of Owensboro, which will continue to provide the
user of the public telephone system therein the ability to reach local
emergency agencies on a 24-hour basis, by dialing the digits 9-1-1.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 65.755, every telephone company within the
commonwealth shall reserve the initial digits 9-1-1 for use as an emergency
telephone number. BellSouth Telecommunications shall assign this number within
an exchange only to the county, within its jurisdictional boundary.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive, on behalf of the county, is authorized and
directed to execute a letter of intent, lease, and agreement providing for the
implementation, maintenance, and funding of enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone
service for the benefit of the citizens of the county, which documents and
agreements are attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (D)   There is hereby established a 9-1-1 fee of $1.25 per month for each
exchange telephone subscriber which is levied as a special tax, license, or
fee, and shall be collected from each local exchange telephone subscriber in
the area to be served 9-1-1 service set out in division (A) above on an
individual exchange-line basis limited to a maximum of 25 exchange lines per
account. This fee shall commence immediately upon the effective date of this
section and shall be collected each month thereafter as established in this
section. All revenues from this tax or fee expressly levied to fund 9-1-
1 emergency services shall be expended solely for this purpose. BellSouth
Telecommunications shall collect the 9-1-1 monthly fee from the telephone
subscribers and remit said fee to the county according to the terms of the
agreement.
   (E)   (1)   The 9-1-1 Advisory Board established by Ordinance 350.1 and
amended by Ordinance 350.2 is hereby approved, and shall be comprised of the
following individuals: county representative/Chairperson appointed by the
County Judge/Executive; city representative appointed by the Mayor of the City
of Owensboro; Whitesville representative appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Whitesville; County Sheriff; Owensboro Police Chief; representative from the
Commonwealth Police; representative from Owensboro Mercy Health System; County
Fire Chief; Owensboro Fire Chief; County Coroner; representative from the
Commonwealth Attorney’s Office; representative from the County Attorney’s
Office; and a citizen knowledgeable of communication systems appointed by the
County Judge/Executive.
      (2)   Said Board shall meet quarterly and the Chairperson may call
special meetings upon written notice delivered to the members at least seven
days prior to any special meeting.
      (3)   Said Board shall continuously monitor the procedures established
for the operation of the 9-1-1 system and make recommendations to the County
Fiscal Court for effective implementation of the emergency telephone service.
      (4)   Appointed representatives shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing authority.
   (F)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 350.3 (97), passed 7-9-1997)
§ 30.02 WRECKER AND VEHICLE STORAGE; FACILITY; SERVICES FOR THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Legislative findings. All facts, policies, and objectives recited in
the preamble of the ordinance codified herein are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this section.
   (B)   Title and purpose. This section shall henceforth be known as the
“Wrecker Service and Vehicle Storage Facility Ordinance”. The purpose of this
section is to provide a safe, efficient, and equitable system for removal of
damaged, disabled, abandoned, or illegally parked motor vehicles from county
and state roads and highways located within the county, but outside the
geographical limits of the City of Owensboro.
   (C)   Administration of wrecker, repair, and storage facilities.
      (1)   All applications, fees, lists, complaints, or other written
information concerning the administration of this section shall be maintained
and monitored by the County Sheriff. All requests by the Sheriff’s Department
personnel for wrecker and/or storage facility service in the county shall be
administered through a Sheriff’s Department radio dispatcher as directed in
this section. All wrecker services, automobile body repair businesses
(independent or dealership), and vehicle storage facilities within the county
that meet the minimum qualifications and requirements prescribed below shall be
eligible to provide wrecker, repair, and/or vehicle storage services.
      (2)   The Sheriff shall maintain and monitor three separate lists from
which it shall administer wrecker and/or vehicle storage services:
         (a)   Wrecker service list;
         (b)   Automobile body shop repair list; and
         (c)   Approved vehicle storage list.
   (D)   Eligibility for inclusion on service lists.
      (1)   Wrecker service list. All wrecker service businesses in the county
shall be eligible for inclusion on the wrecker service list provided said
business meets all of the following requirements and conditions.
         (a)   All wrecker service businesses must submit a written application
in a form and format approved by the County Sheriff and pay an annual
regulatory service fee of $250.
         (b)   The wrecker service must provide 24-hour service, seven days per
week, and shall respond to all emergency calls within a reasonable time period.
In addition, the wrecker service must have a local telephone number to handle
emergency calls on a 24-hour basis.
         (c)   All wrecker services must be independently owned and operated
from one location. INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED means that no body shop,
repair, or auto storage facility shall have an ownership interest in more than
one wrecker service on the county’s list. No wrecker service shall be included
on the list until its service application has been submitted and approved by
the Sheriff and the annual service fee has been paid. The wrecker service shall
notify the Sheriff of any changes in the information on the wrecker service
application. All wrecker businesses submitting applications for inclusion on
the service list are, by virtue of submission of an application, deemed to have
agreed to and be bound by the terms thereof. The wrecker service must have a
minimum weight limit of one ton, be equipped with a motor-driven wench, wheel
lifts and dollies, and otherwise meet standard wrecker specifications as may
hereafter be determined by the Sheriff from time to time. Each wrecker service
must be capable of towing imported vehicles not designed to be towed by
conventional methods, and all drivers/operators must be familiar with the
recommendations of various manufacturers regarding towing of that particular
manufacturer’s vehicle. In addition, the wrecker must be equipped with one ABC
fire extinguisher, safety chains, dolly, axe, broom, and shovel. The wrecker
service is responsible for cleaning all debris from streets and property and
disposing of the same when called to the scene of an accident, and must have
some type of material to absorb spillage of liquids from wrecked vehicles on
county or state roads and highways.
         (d)   The wrecker service must provide a copy of its for-hire I.D.
card issued through the Commonwealth Department of Transportation, Division of
Motor Carriers. The name and DOT numbers must be permanently painted on wrecker
vehicles.
         (e)   The wrecker service may impose a reasonable or agreed upon
charge for towed or transported vehicles, and shall furnish the Sheriff with a
current itemized list of all charges for wrecker service, including basic tow
and add-on charges. Wrecker services are prohibited from charging more for
services rendered under the Sheriff’s list than would otherwise be charged for
identical services to private customers. Wrecker service shall notify the
Sheriff of any increase in wrecker service charges at least 30 days prior to
the implementation of new charges.
         (f)   The wrecker service shall have personnel available during
reasonable business hours to provide information to the county and vehicle
owners, owner’s agent, or representative, concerning the transportation or
storage of a towed motor vehicle.
         (g)   The wrecker service shall be responsible for all losses, theft,
or damage to vehicles from the time they are towed until the vehicle is
released to the owner, a dealership, auto repair, or storage facility.
         (h)   The wrecker service must furnish an adequate record system for
all motor vehicles and property towed and stored, and adequate storage for all
personal property removed therefrom. Said records shall contain information
including, but not limited to, a log indicating vehicle description (make,
model, VIN, color, and the like), license number, and any personal property in
the vehicle, along with the date and time of towing and release.
         (i)   The wrecker service shall employ only those operators holding a
valid commonwealth driver’s license without conditions or restrictions that
would impair the driver’s ability to operate wrecker equipment.
         (j)   The wrecker service must provide the Sheriff with certificates
of insurance insuring said wrecker service against theft, vandalism, personal
injury, damages, or other casualty losses in amounts and on such terms as are
provided in division (D)(1)(i) above.
      (2)   Automobile repair facility list. All automobile body repair
facilities within the county, including dealerships, who meet the following
requirements and conditions, shall be eligible for inclusion on this list.
         (a)   Automobile body repair businesses shall pay an annual regulatory
service fee of $250, and must submit a written statement to the Sheriff
granting approved wrecker businesses 24-hour access to business premises and
provide instructions for temporary placement of wrecked vehicles.
         (b)   Automobile body repair business shall indemnify and hold wrecker
drivers harmless from any liability resulting from theft, vandalism, or damage
to vehicles left on the business premises, and shall be liable for charges by
wrecker business for transportation of wrecked vehicle to its premises.
      (3)   Vehicle storage facility list. The vehicle storage facility list
may be established by either of the two methods provided below.
         (a)   The County Sheriff may elect to utilize the vehicle storage
facility list established by the City of Owensboro pursuant to City of
Owensboro Ordinance 36-93.
         (b)   If the Sheriff elects not to utilize the vehicle storage
facility list established by the city, then all authorized automobile storage
facilities within the county shall be entitled to compete, through bid
proposals, for inclusion on the storage facility list that will provide storage
service. The vehicle storage facility list would be determined by the following
process.
            1.   As soon as practicable after the adoption of this section, the
Sheriff shall advertise and solicit competitive bid proposals for vehicle
storage service, based on the specifications, terms, and conditions that best
facilitate reliable vehicle storage service, and preserve and protect the
public health, safety, and welfare.
            2.   At a minimum, specifications for competitive bid proposals
shall include payment of an annual regulatory service fee in the amount of
$250, and require all vehicle storage facilities to comply with applicable
zoning laws, regulations, and other industry standards, including storage
experience and readiness. These shall be in addition to any and all other
specifications established by the Sheriff. The Sheriff reserves the right to
accept one or more bids that best promote its objectives, and further reserves
the right to reject any and all bids that do not meet specifications, terms,
and conditions prescribed in this division (D)(3)(b)2.
            3.   Thereafter, and at least every three years, the Sheriff shall
advertise and solicit competitive bid proposals for vehicle storage service,
based on specifications, terms, and conditions that would allow for, but not
necessarily require, an increase in the existing number of vehicle storage
facilities on said list.
         (c)   Inclusion of wrecker services, automobile body repair, and
storage facilities on service lists shall not be construed as an employment or
contractual relationship between the Sheriff and/or county and said business or
facility, and the Sheriff and/or county assumes no liability by virtue of this
division (D)(3)(c), for damages claimed by vehicle owners, or any and all other
persons who may present a claim for damages against the Sheriff and/or county
in connection with the towing, repair, and/or storage of a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Removal of wrecked or disabled vehicles; preference calls.
      (1)   The owner or lawful operator of a damaged or disabled motor vehicle
requiring wrecker service and body repairs shall have the right to determine
the wrecker service to be summoned and the destination of said vehicle. The
officer in charge of an accident scene involving a disabled or wrecked vehicle
shall, as soon as is appropriate, determine the motor vehicle owner/operator’s
destination preference, if any, and shall honor the vehicle owner/operator’s
preference for wrecker service and/or destination of the vehicle, if indicated,
which information shall be recorded by the officer on an official Department
tow slip. No owner, employee, or agent of any wrecker service summoned to the
scene of an accident shall participate in, or influence, the decision of the
vehicle owner/operator as to the destination of the wrecked or disabled
vehicle, and to the extent required to clear any accident scene, the officer in
charge shall control communications with the vehicle owner/operator.
      (2)   If the owner or operator of the wrecked vehicle indicates no
preference for wrecker service, then the officer in charge of the accident
scene shall direct the radio dispatcher to dispatch the next wrecker on the
wrecker service list, on a rotational basis. The wrecker service shall take the
vehicle to any destination indicated by the vehicle owner or operator, within
the county, day or night; provided, that if a vehicle owner or operator
requests that a vehicle be taken to a residence or any destination other than
an auto body repair business on the county’s repair facilities list, the
wrecker service shall not be required to transport said vehicle to the
requested destination unless the owner or operator has made satisfactory
arrangements with the wrecker service for payment. If satisfactory arrangements
for payment are not made, wrecker service shall transport the vehicle to the
next storage facility on the county’s storage facility list on a rotational
basis.
   (F)   Removal of wrecked, abandoned, or illegally parked vehicles; non-
preference calls. Where the motor vehicle operator is injured, unavailable, or
otherwise indicates no preference for destination of a wrecked vehicle, then
the radio dispatcher shall dispatch the next wrecker on the rotational wrecker
list who shall transport the vehicle to the next authorized storage facility on
the rotational storage facility list.
   (G)   Removal of legally parked; unoccupied vehicle. In the event of an
emergency that requires the Sheriff’s Department to move a legally parked, but
unoccupied, vehicle from a county or state road or highway located in the
county, but outside the geographical limits of the City of Owensboro, the
officer in charge shall instruct the radio dispatcher to dispatch the next
wrecker service on the rotation list. Wrecker service will be contacted only
after the vehicle’s owner or operator cannot be contacted to move the vehicle,
or when the owner or operator cannot remove said vehicle in a timely manner.
Under these circumstances, the county shall be liable to the wrecker service
for the reasonable and customary tow charge, and the wrecker service thus
dispatched shall lose its position on the rotation list, as would otherwise
occur under normal circumstances.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The County Sheriff shall investigate all complaints that a
violation of this section has occurred, and present this findings and all
documentation and evidence supporting same to the County Judge/Executive.
      (2)   The County Judge/Executive may take any and all actions reasonably
necessary and appropriate to determine the validity or invalidity of the
complaint.
      (3)   If the County Judge/Executive finds by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation has occurred, he or she may impose the following
penalties.
         (a)   For the first violation, wrecker service, auto body repair, or
storage facility may be suspended from its respective service list for a period
of time not to exceed six months.
         (b)   For a subsequent violation by the same offender within a two-
year period, suspension from the appropriate list for at least six months, but
not to exceed one year. Any subsequent violation by the same offender within a
two-year period shall result in permanent removal from the appropriate list.
      (4)   The decision of the County Judge/Executive with regard to
compliance issues and imposition of penalties is binding and final.
   (I)   Promulgation, rules, and regulations. The County Sheriff shall have
the authority to adopt and promulgate appropriate rules and regulations to
carry out the provisions of this section, subject to the approval of the County
Judge/Executive.
   (J)   Advisory Committee. The City of Owensboro, pursuant to the authority
of City Ordinance 36-93, has established an Advisory Committee to monitor the
wrecker service, vehicle storage, and auto repair businesses operating within
the local community. The Sheriff is directed to seek the guidance of this
Committee and, when appropriate, incorporate and act upon its recommendations.
   (K)   Effective date. This section shall take effect on the fifteenth day
following publication of the notice of adoption of same.
(Ord. KOC 521.1 (2007), passed 9-6-2007)
FINANCE AND REVENUE
§ 30.15 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX FOR THE OPERATION OF THE CONVENTION CENTER.
   (A)   To provide funds for the operation of the Convention/Events Center,
there is imposed a special transient room tax of 1% on the rent of every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms charged by all persons, for occupancy of a
suite, room, rooms, cabins, lodgings, campsites, or other accommodations
charged by any hotel, motel, inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campgrounds,
recreational vehicle parks, or any other place in which accommodations are
regularly furnished to transients for consideration or by any person that
facilitates the rental of the accommodations by brokering, coordinating, or in
any other way arranging for the rental of the accommodations in Daviess County,
Kentucky (the collecting parties or agents). Transient room taxes shall not
apply to rooms, lodgings, campsites, or accommodations supplied by a continuous
period of 30 days or more to a person.
   (B)   These collecting parties shall collect and pay the transient room tax
to the County Fiscal Court, and the County Fiscal Court is authorized to take
all appropriate action to provide for the collection and enforcement of this
special transient room tax.
   (C)   The collecting agents shall pay these special transient room taxes to
the County Fiscal Court no later than 30 days following the month in which said
taxes were to have been collected. Each collecting agent shall file a return in
duplicate on a form which is provided for that purpose, a copy of which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein. If any collecting agent fails to
complete properly and return the reporting form along with the taxes to the
appropriate agency, it shall be subject to such civil and criminal remedies as
are available in the Kentucky Revised Statutes for failure to make required
disposition of property as provided by the Kentucky Revised Statutes and by
this section.
   (D)   For the failure to pay said taxes within the required time as set out
above, a penalty of 6% shall be added to those accounts that are not paid
within the 30-day period as stated above. This penalty of 6% shall be levied
against the total amount of tax which is overdue on the date in which it is
paid.
   (E)   The County Fiscal Court shall disburse to the Treasurer of the City of
Owensboro all monies received from the collection of the 1% special transient
room tax within 30 days after receiving them. Pursuant to KRS 91A.390(3), the
County Fiscal Court and the City of Owensboro shall maintain the tax monies
collected from the special transient room tax in a separate account, unique
from all other funds and revenues collected, and shall be used for the sole
purpose of meeting the operating expenses of the Convention Center.
   (F)   The year for accounting purposes shall be based on a fiscal year,
commensurate with the city and county, beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of
each year.
   (G)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication of Ord. KOC 150.16 (2023).
(Ord. KOC 150.1, passed 1-8-1980; KOC 150.12 (2012), passed 6-7-2012;KOC 150.16
(2023), passed 4-20-2023)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding the Owensboro-Daviess Convention and Visitors
Bureau, see §
31.06
§ 30.16 FRANCHISE TAX ON BANK DEPOSITS.
   (A)   General provisions. Pursuant to KRS Ch. 136, there is hereby imposed
on each financial institution, as defined in division (B) below, located within
the jurisdiction of the county, a franchise tax measured by the deposits in
such institutions. All monies collected pursuant to this section shall be paid
into the General Fund of the county to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPOSITS. All demand and time deposits, excluding deposits of the U.S.
government, state and political subdivisions, other financial institutions,
public libraries, educational institutions, religious institutions, charitable
institutions, and certified and officers’ checks.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
         (a)   A national bank organized and existing as a national bank
association pursuant to the provisions of the National Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. §§
21 et seq., in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or a national bank organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of the National Bank Act in effect on December 31,
1995;
         (b)   Any bank or trust company incorporated or organized under the
laws of any state, except a banker’s bank organized under KRS 287.135;
         (c)   Any corporation organized under the provisions of 12 U.S.C. §§
611 to 631 in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any corporation organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §§ 611 to 631, in effect on December
31, 1995; or
         (d)   Any agency or branch of a foreign depository as defined in 12
U.S.C. § 3101, in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any agency or branch of a foreign depository
established after December 31, 1995, that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §
3101 in effect on December 31, 1995.
   (C)   Rate of franchise tax.
      (1)   The rate of the franchise tax imposed on financial institutions
shall be 0.025% of the deposits located in the jurisdiction of the county.
      (2)   The amount and location of deposits in the financial institutions
shall be determined by the method used for filing the summary of deposits
report with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
      (3)   The accounting method used to allocate deposits for completion of
the summary of deposits shall be the same as has been utilized in prior
periods.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   The Commonwealth Revenue Cabinet shall certify to the local
jurisdiction the amount of deposits within the jurisdiction and amount of the
tax due.
      (2)   The county shall issue bills to the financial institution by
December 1 of each year.
      (3)   In the transition year of 1996, the tax bills shall be issued to
financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997.
   (E)   Due date.
      (1)   The tax bill shall be due January 31 of the next year after it has
been issued; thereafter, the bill shall be delinquent and subject to a penalty
of 25% and interest of 12% per annum.
      (2)   The financial institution shall be allowed a 2% discount if the tax
bill is paid by December 31 of the same year as the tax bill is issued.
      (3)   The 2% discount shall be allowed on bills paid by May 31, 1997 for
the transitional year. All other bills during this year shall be due June 1,
1997; thereafter, the bill shall be delinquent and subject to a penalty of 25%
and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
      (4)   The county shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (F)   Records.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to collect and account for the
franchise taxes imposed by this section. The Sheriff shall keep records of the
amount received from each financial institution and the date of receipt.
      (2)   The Commonwealth Revenue Cabinet shall be notified of the tax rate
imposed upon adoption of this section and of any subsequent rate changes.
   (G)   Effective date. The provisions of this section shall become effective
upon passage and publication.
(Ord. 220.13 (96), passed 9-25-1996)
FEES
§ 30.30 COURT FACILITY FEES.
   (A)   Civil and criminal court fees. The following fees and costs in civil
and criminal cases in County Circuit and District Courts are assessed for the
purposes set forth in KRS 23A.220 and KRS 24A.18.
      (1)   A fee of $25 is added to the court costs in civil cases in Circuit
Court.
      (2)   A cost of $25 is added to the court costs a defendant is required
to pay in criminal cases in Circuit Court.
      (3)   A fee of $25 is added to filing fees in civil cases appealed from
Circuit Court to the Court of Appeals.
      (4)   A cost of $10 is added to the court costs for each traffic offense
in District Court.
      (5)   A fee of $10 is added to filing fees in probate cases in District
Court.
      (6)   A cost of $20 is added to the court costs a defendant is required
to pay in misdemeanor cases in District Court.
      (7)   A fee of $10 is added to filing fees in small claims cases in
District Court.
   (B)   Subpoenas/civil summons fees. The following fees are assessed on the
service of subpoenas and civil summons by the County Sheriff for the purposes
set forth in KRS 64.091.
      (1)   A fee of $10 is added to the fees normally charged by the local
Sheriff to the person requesting service of a subpoena.
      (2)   A fee of $10 is added to the fees normally charged by the local
Sheriff to the person requesting service of a civil summons.
   (C)   Fee remittance. The County Sheriff shall, not later than monthly,
remit to the County Fiscal Court all fees collected pursuant to this section.
All fees and costs collected by the County Circuit Clerk shall be forwarded to
the Commonwealth Finance and Administration Cabinet not later than monthly for
remittance to the County Fiscal Court.
   (D)   Effective date. This section becomes effective on July 1, 2002, after
passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 220.15 (2002), passed 6-20-2002)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Establishment of the Justice of the Peace and County Commissioner’s
Districts
   
31.02   Emergency Management Agency
   
31.03   Joint Sewer Agency
   
31.04   Owensboro-Daviess County Industrial Development Authority
   
31.05   County Electrical Inspector
   
31.06   Appointments of the Owensboro-Daviess County Convention and Visitor’s
Bureau
   
31.07   County Library; Board
   
31.08   Airport Board
 
   
31.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: 2023 Reapportionment Plan for the County
   
Appendix B: 2023 Voting Precincts and Commissioner Districts
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JUSTICE OF THE PEACE AND COUNTY COMMISSIONER’S
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court establishes the Eastern, Central, and Western
Justice of the Peace and County Commissioner’s District boundaries and the
voting precincts located within each district as set out in Appendix A at the
end of this chapter.
   (B)   A copy of the voting precinct map for the City of Owensboro and the
county showing the boundary of each County Commissioner’s District is set out
at the end of this chapter as
Appendix B.
   (C)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 111.4 (2011), passed 8-18-2011; Ord. KOC 111.5 (2023), passed 8-10-
2023)
§ 31.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Creation of Agency.
      (1)   There is hereby created the Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency
Management Agency which shall serve the interest of public safety within the
territorial boundaries of the county.
      (2)   The Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Agency shall
develop, implement, and maintain the local comprehensive emergency management
program for the county in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chs. 39A to
39F, the comprehensive emergency management program requirements of the
Commonwealth Division of Emergency Management, the provisions of the
Commonwealth Emergency Operations Plan, administrative regulations promulgated
by the Commonwealth Division of Emergency Management, and the resolutions,
orders, or ordinances of the County Fiscal Court.
      (3)   The Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Agency shall be
an organizational unit of county government attached to the Office of County
Judge/Executive and shall have primary jurisdiction, responsibility, and
authority for all matters pertaining to the comprehensive emergency management
program and disaster and emergency response of the county.
      (4)   The Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Agency shall meet
all requirements of a local emergency management agency as defined in KRS Chs.
39A to 39F and shall be the administrative branch of the County Disaster and
Emergency Services organization established pursuant to KRS Chs. 39A to 39F.
      (5)   The County Judge/Executive shall designate and include a separate
Emergency Management Agency budget unit classification within each annual
county budget, and all financial matters of the Owensboro-Daviess County
Emergency Management Agency shall be handled through the County Treasury and
uniform budget system.
   (B)   Appointment of Director.
      (1)   The County Judge/Executive, within 30 days of the effective date of
this section, shall appoint an Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management
Director and shall notify the Commonwealth Division of Emergency Management of
the appointment.
      (2)   The Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Director shall
serve no longer than four consecutive years without reappointment and, as a
minimum, shall meet all the qualification requirements specified in KRS Chs.
39A to 39F.
   (C)   Responsibilities of the Director. The Owensboro-Daviess County
Emergency Management Director shall have and exercise all the powers,
authorities, rights, and duties as specified in KRS Chs. 39A to 39F, and in the
orders or ordinances of the County Fiscal Court, to include the following:
      (1)   To represent the County Judge/Executive on all matters pertaining
to the comprehensive emergency management program and the disaster and
emergency response of the county;
      (2)   To be the chief administrative officer of the Owensboro-Daviess
County Emergency Management Agency and direct, control, supervise, and manage
the development, preparation, organization, administration, operation,
implementation, and maintenance of the comprehensive emergency management
program of the county, and to coordinate all disaster and emergency responses
of the county;
      (3)   To develop, update, and maintain the County Emergency Operations
Plan in compliance with the provisions of KRS Chs. 39A to 39F;
      (4)   To establish, maintain, and coordinate or direct the County
Disaster and Emergency Services organization in accordance with the provisions
of the County Emergency Operations Plan, the Commonwealth Emergency Operations
Plan, and the provisions of KRS Chs. 39A to 39F;
      (5)   To notify the County Judge/Executive and the Commonwealth Division
of Emergency Management immediately of the occurrence, or threatened or
impending occurrence, of any emergency, disaster, or catastrophic incident or
situation, and provide in such notice an assessment of possible or actual
damages or threats to life, health, safety, property, or the environment, and
recommend any emergency actions or orders which should be executed;
      (6)   To be the chief advisor to and the primary on-scene representative
of the County Judge/Executive in the event of any emergency, declared
emergency, disaster, or catastrophe within the county;
      (7)   To respond and have full access to the scenes of an emergency,
declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophe and immediately investigate,
analyze, or access the nature, scope, or seriousness of all situations;
coordinate the establishment and operation of an incident command or management
system; execute the provisions of the County Emergency Operations Plan;
activate the County Emergency Operations Center or on-scene command post;
convene meetings, gather information, and conduct briefings; notify the County
Judge/Executive and the Commonwealth Division of Emergency Management
immediately of the nature, scope, or seriousness of any emergency situation and
provide information on all on-going response actions being taken in association
with the incident; provide any assistance requested, as deemed necessary or
appropriate; and take any actions to fully expedite and coordinate the disaster
and emergency response of all local public or private agencies, departments,
units, or individuals;
      (8)   To take or direct immediate actions to protect public safety at the
direction of the County Judge/Executive during any declared emergency or
disaster;
      (9)   To act as an official representative of the Commonwealth Division
of Emergency Management when specifically requested by the Commonwealth
Director and approved by the County Judge/Executive;
      (10)   To report directly to the County Judge/Executive and act in an
official policy-making capacity when carrying out all duties of the Emergency
Management Agency Director;
      (11)   To direct all paid or volunteer employees, staff assistants, or
other workers of the Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Agency, and
supervise any operating units and personnel associated with it which are
officially appointed and affiliated with the County Disaster and Emergency
Services organization pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chs. 39A to 39F;
      (12)   To prepare and submit regular or scheduled program activity
reports to the area manager of the Commonwealth Division of Emergency
Management and the County Judge/Executive;
      (13)   To execute bonds in the amount as determined by the County Judge/
Executive, when directed by the County Judge/Executive;
      (14)   To prepare and submit to the County Judge/Executive, on an annual
basis according to the deadline requested by the County Treasurer, a program
and agency budget request for the Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management
Agency;
      (15)   To prepare and submit to the Commonwealth Division of Emergency
Management, on an annual basis by the July 15, a fiscal year program paper and
budget request for the Owensboro-Daviess County Emergency Management Agency;
      (16)   To enroll and be a registered member of the Commonwealth Emergency
Management Association; and
      (17)   To perform all administrative, organizational, or operational
tasks required pursuant to KRS Chs. 39A to 39F, commonwealth administrative
regulations, the Commonwealth Emergency Operations Plan, or program guidance
issued by the Commonwealth Division of Emergency Management; and to carry out
all other emergency management-related duties as required by the resolutions,
orders, or ordinances of the County Fiscal Court, the executive orders of the
County Judge/Executive, and the provisions of the County Emergency Operations
Plan.
   (D)   Effective date. This section becomes effective immediately upon
passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 330.1 (99), passed 7-14-1999)
§ 31.03 JOINT SEWER AGENCY.
   (A)   Establishment of Joint Sewer Agency. In order to provide for the
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, there is
hereby created and established, under and pursuant to the provisions of KRS
76.231, a Joint Sewer Agency to own, manage, control, and operate regional
comprehensive wastewater facilities within the county, excluding the facilities
planning area boundary of the City of Whitesville.
   (B)   Board.
      (1)   The Joint Sewer Agency Board shall consist of seven persons, four
of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Owensboro and subject to
approval of the City Commission; two of whom shall be appointed by the County
Judge/Executive and subject to approval of the Fiscal Court; and one of whom
shall be jointly appointed by both the Mayor and the County Judge/Executive,
subject to the approval of the governing bodies. All appointees shall be
qualified as required by state law. The joint appointment will cease at the end
of the first four-year term, and thereafter shall become a County Judge/
Executive appointment.
      (2)   Members of the Board shall be persons of outstanding reputations
for ability and integrity, shall be at least 25 years of age, a current
resident of the county for a period of no less than three years, and will serve
for a term of four years.
      (3)   (a)   Initial Board appointments shall be for staggered terms as
follows:
            1.   One appointment from each governing agency shall serve a one-
year term;
            2.   One appointment from each governing agency shall serve a two-
year term;
            3.   Two appointments by the Mayor shall serve a three-year term;
and
            4.   The joint appointment shall serve a four-year term.
         (b)   All appointments made at the conclusion of the initial staggered
period shall thereafter be for a term of four years.
      (4)   In the event of a Board vacancy, and also at least 30 days
preceding the expiration of the term of office of any appointed Board member, a
successor shall be appointed by the appropriate governing official. However,
the incumbent member shall serve until such time as the vacancy has been
filled. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term, and all other
appointments shall be for a term of four years.
      (5)   Any Board member by appointment, upon expiration of his or her
term, shall be eligible for reappointment.
      (6)   Any person who shall have held an elective office within the county
shall not be eligible for appointment until at least one year after the
expiration of the term for which the appointee was elected.
      (7)   Each appointed Board member shall be removable for cause as set
forth by state statutes.
      (8)   Any appointed Board member failing to attend three regularly-
scheduled successive meetings, or a minimum of 75% of all meetings within a
one-year period, without cause acceptable and approved by the Joint Sewer
Agency Board, shall automatically be removed from office, and the vacancy shall
be filled as provided for in this section.
      (9)   Each Board member shall be bonded by the Joint Sewer Agency, and
all bonds shall be payable to the Agency in the sums the Board may fix, with
approved corporate surety, and premiums therefore shall be paid by the Agency.
   (C)   Meetings of Board; quorum.
      (1)   The Joint Sewer Agency Board shall meet no less than once per
month, and may adopt rules and by-laws for the time and location of its
meetings and conduct thereof.
      (2)   A majority of Board members present at any meeting shall constitute
a quorum, and the affirmative majority vote or a minimum of three affirmative
votes shall be required for the adoption of any motion, measure, or resolution.
      (3)   A permanent record of Board proceedings shall be maintained, and
shall be available for inspection as a public record.
   (D)   Officers and employees.
      (1)   (a)   The jointly-appointed Board members shall serve as
Chairperson of the Joint Sewer Agency Board. Upon dissolution of the jointly-
appointed position, the Chairperson shall be elected by the Board on an annual
basis.
         (b)   At the first meeting of the Joint Sewer Agency Board, and
annually thereafter, the Board shall elect a member to serve in the capacity of
Vice-Chairperson.
         (c)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings when present, and
shall call special meetings of the Chairperson’s own motion or when requested
to do so by three other Board members.
      (2)   The Joint Sewer Agency Board shall have the power to employ, fix
the compensation of, and discharge an Executive Director and/or Chief Engineer,
and a Secretary-Treasurer. The Board, through the Executive Director, shall
direct, employ, or fix the compensation of, and discharge any employee of the
Agency. All employees of the Agency shall be subject, however, to civil service
statutes and personnel regulations, as established by the Agency.
      (3)   The Board shall require the Executive Director and/or Chief
Engineer and Secretary-Treasurer to execute a bond, and may exact from such of
its other officers and employees bonds as it deems expedient. All bonds shall
be payable to the Agency in the sums as the Board may fix with approved
corporate surety, and premiums therefor shall be paid by the Agency.
      (4)   The Board may also employ, and remove at its pleasure, legal
counsel, professional and technical advisors or services, experts, and other
persons, skilled or unskilled, as it deems requisite for the performance of its
duties. The Joint Sewer Agency shall adopt the Commonwealth Model Procurement
Code, and these services shall be procured and reviewed according to said Code.
      (5)   The Joint Sewer Agency shall contract with the City of Owensboro
for financial, engineering, and personnel services through June 30, 1996.
Effective July 1, 1996, these services shall be performed by the Agency, or
procured as outlined in division (D)(4) above. The Joint Sewer Agency shall
give a 90-day notice to the City of Owensboro, prior to the discontinuance of
any of the aforementioned services.
   (E)   Agency to take over existing facilities.
      (1)   All bond requirements of the Owensboro Sewer Commission must be
fulfilled, prior to the formation of the Joint Sewer Agency.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the Joint Sewer Agency, all existing assets,
liabilities, easements, personnel, control, management, and authority of the
Owensboro Sewer Commission shall be transferred to, and become a part of, the
Agency.
      (3)   Upon establishment of the Joint Sewer Agency, all personnel of the
Owensboro Sewer Commission shall be transferred to the Agency, and shall retain
all existing and accrued benefits, including, but not limited to, wages and/or
salaries, vacations, sick leave, years of service, and pension investment.
      (4)   At such time as transfer of said existing assets, liabilities,
personnel, and authority of the Owensboro Sewer Commission is complete, the
Owensboro Sewer Commission shall no longer retain any power or authority, but
shall continue to exist for the sole purpose of initiating any causes of action
that it may have. Any monies received on such causes of action shall
immediately be transferred to the Joint Sewer Agency.
      (5)   In the event that the legislative bodies of the City of Owensboro
and the County Fiscal Court should decide to dissolve the Joint Sewer Agency,
all existing assets, liabilities, personnel, and authority shall be distributed
as stipulated in identical ordinances approved and adopted by both governing
agencies.
   (F)   Appeals process.
      (1)   Any person or entity aggrieved by any final action of the Joint
Sewer Agency Board, may appeal from said action to the legislative body (city
or county) of appropriate jurisdiction. The Joint Agency shall be allowed to
appear before the appropriate legislative body and defend its action or
decision. The respective legislative body hearing the appeal may modify,
sustain, or overrule the action taken by the Joint Sewer Agency Board.
      (2)   Appeals by the aggrieved party shall be made in writing by filing
the appeal with the Clerk of the appropriate legislative body within 30 days
after the decision of the Joint Sewer Agency Board. All decisions which have
not been appealed within 30 days shall become final.
   (G)   General powers of the Agency. The Joint Sewer Agency created under
this section is empowered:
      (1)   To have full and complete jurisdiction, control, possession, and
supervision of said existing wastewater system, including the maintenance,
operation, reconstruction, and improvements to the same as a regional
comprehensive wastewater system; to make additions, betterments, and extensions
thereto within the Agency area; and to have all the privilege and jurisdiction
necessary or proper for carrying such powers into execution. No enumeration of
powers shall operate to restrict the meaning of this general grant of power, or
to exclude other powers comprehended within this general grant;
      (2)   To acquire by purchase, gift, lease, or by condemnation, real
property or any interest, right, easement, or privilege therein, as the Board
determines necessary, proper, and convenient for the purposes of the Agency,
and to use the same so long as the Agency’s existence continues. Condemnation
proceedings may be instituted in the name of the Agency pursuant to a
resolution of the Board declaring the necessity for the taking, and the method
of condemnation shall be the same as provided in the Eminent Domain Act of the
commonwealth. When the Board, by resolution, declares that any real property
which it has acquired, or any interest therein, is no longer necessary or
useful to the Agency, the real property and interest therein may be disposed
of;
      (3)   To make by-laws and agreements for the management and regulation of
its affairs and for the regulation of the use of property under its control;
      (4)   To make contracts and execute all instruments necessary or
convenient in the premises;
      (5)   To recommend and initiate all user charges adequate to meet the
projected revenue requirement necessary to maintain and operate the complete
wastewater collection system and treatment facilities in a manner that complies
with federal and state guidelines. The existing user charges and rates as
established by the Owensboro Sewer Commission shall be adopted by the Joint
Sewer Agency. All user charges shall remain in effect until such time as a user
charge change has been approved by the Rate Review Board;
      (6)   To borrow money and issue negotiable bonds, and to provide for the
rights of the holders thereof, subject to the approval of the Rate Review
Board;
      (7)   To establish service area boundaries, define service within those
boundaries, and establish policies for the same;
      (8)   To enter any lands, waters, and premises for the purpose of making
surveys, soundings, and examinations;
      (9)   To require payment for wastewater service, at such time as
wastewater facilities become available;
      (10)   To discontinue service for nonpayment;
      (11)   To approve or revise the plans and designs of all wastewater
facilities proposed to be constructed, altered, or reconstructed, including,
but not limited to, sewer lines, pump stations, or wastewater treatment
facilities, by any other person or corporation, public or private within the
county, excluding the facilities planning area boundary of the City of
Whitesville, in order to ensure that such proposed construction, alteration, or
reconstruction shall conform to, and be a part of, a regional comprehensive
wastewater plan for the county. The right to review and comment on all plans
for construction, alteration, or reconstruction shall be extended to the City
Engineer or County Engineer, as determined by the area of jurisdiction for
which the project is proposed. These projects shall also be subject to the
inspection and supervision of the Agency; and
      (12)    The Joint Agency Board shall prepare a budget annually for the
wastewater activities and hold a public hearing on said budget prior to its
adoption, effective beginning with fiscal year July 1, 1997.
   (H)   Payments to local governments. The Joint Sewer Agency shall pay no
money, nor provide free services, to any local government except as payment for
contracted services or purchases of land or equipment as required by law.
   (I)   Rate Review Board.
      (1)   A Rate Review Board shall be comprised of the members of the County
Fiscal Court and the Owensboro City Commission sitting as a single body, solely
for the purpose set out in this division (I).
      (2)   A simple majority of the members shall be a quorum to conduct
business pursuant to written notice by the Joint Agency Board.
      (3)   The Rate Review Board shall approve or disapprove all rate changes
recommended by the Joint Agency Board by majority vote. The Rate Review Board
shall not have the authority to initiate rate changes.
   (J)   Uniform user charges. All residential user charges shall be uniform
throughout the collection system, except that surcharges may be assessed for
capital expansion of the system.
   (K)   Stormwater utilities. The County Fiscal Court and the City of
Owensboro, within their respective jurisdictions, shall have the authority to
establish with sufficient funding, a separate and independent stormwater
utility by separate ordinance, under the management and control of the Joint
Sewer Agency.
   (L)   Effective date. This section shall become effective immediately upon
passage and publication.
(Ord. 610.2 (94), passed 10-5-1994; R.1 (96), passed 10-30-1996)
§ 31.04 OWENSBORO-DAVIESS COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 152.830, there is hereby established the Owensboro-
Daviess County Industrial Development Authority.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 152.860, said Authority shall be composed of six
members. Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor and three members
appointed by the County Judge/Executive. Members of the Authority shall serve
for a term of four years each; provided, however, that initial appointments
shall be made so that two members are appointed for two years, two members
appointed for three years, and two members appointed for four years, with the
Mayor and the County Judge/Executive each appointing one member for each time
period. Upon expiration of these staggered terms, successors shall be appointed
for a term of four years.
   (C)   The Authority shall have the powers and duties provided for in KRS
152.810 through 152.930, as it presently exists and which may be amended in the
future.
   (D)   Termination of the Authority or the withdrawal by a governmental unit
shall be controlled by the provisions in KRS 152.870, as presently it exists
and which may be amended in the future.
   (E)   This section shall become effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. 150.3, passed 3-13-1991)
§ 31.05 COUNTY ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Creation. Pursuant to § 1 of Ordinance 272.1 adopted March 11, 1980,
the Office of County Electrical Inspector was created pursuant to KRS Ch. 198B,
and is by this section hereby reaffirmed. The Fiscal Court may appoint an
individual as the County Electrical Inspector or may contract with the
Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission (OMPC) for electrical inspector
services. In the event the county contracts with the Owensboro Metropolitan
Planning Commission, the Inspector provided by OMPC shall have the same
authority as the County Electrical Inspector provided in this section.
   (B)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to reduce the risk of personal
injury and fire hazards stemming from substandard electrical work. The
requirements set out in this section are intended to promote public safety and
quality workmanship by providing minimum standards for electrical installations
within the county, but outside the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro,
and the City of Whitesville.
      (2)   This section shall apply to all electrical wiring and electrical
equipment, used, installed, or maintained in the county, but outside the
corporate limits of the City of Owensboro, and the City of Whitesville, for the
utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat, or power.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMITTEE. The Electrical Advisory Committee as described in KRS 227.530.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction.
      ELECTRICAL. The installation, alteration, or repair of wires and conduits
for the purpose of transmitting electricity, and the installation of fixtures
and equipment in connection therewith.
      ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any licensed individual, partnership, or
corporation that is licensed to engage in, offers to engage in, or advertises
or holds itself out to be qualified to engage in designing, planning,
superintending, contracting of, or assuming responsibility for the
installation, alteration, or repair of any electrical wiring used for the
purpose of furnishing heat, light, or power and employs electrical workers to
engage in this practice. If the ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR is not a master
electrician, the ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR shall employ at least one full-time
master electrician; however, no master electrician shall act in this capacity
for more than one ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR.
      ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. Any person certified by the Commissioner of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who, for
compensation, inspects the construction and installation of electrical
conductors, fittings, devices, and fixtures for light, heat, or power service
equipment to ascertain the compliance with the National Electrical Code
incorporated in the Uniform Commonwealth Building Code promulgated pursuant to
KRS 198B.050 or the standards of safety of the commonwealth.
      ELECTRICIAN. Any person licensed by the Department who is employed by an
electrical contractor and is engaged in the construction, alteration, or repair
of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat, light, or
power.
      HOMEOWNER. An owner and on-site resident of a single-family dwelling.
      MASTER ELECTRICIAN. Any individual licensed to assume responsibility for
the charge, supervision, or direction of an electrician engaged in the
construction, installation, alteration, or repair of electrical wiring used to
furnish heat, light, or power.
   (D)   Adoption of National Electrical Code. All installations, construction,
maintenance, and operation of electrical wiring, appliances, and devices in and
about buildings and on private or public property, if not otherwise
specifically covered in this division (D), shall be installed, constructed,
maintained, operated, and supplied in accordance with the rules and regulations
set forth in the edition of the National Electrical Code most recently adopted
by the Commonwealth Department of Housing, Building, and Construction, a copy
of which Code is on file in the offices of the County Clerk and the Electrical
Inspector and which Code is hereby adopted by the county and incorporated in
this section by reference.
   (E)   Electrical Inspector duties.
      (1)   (a)   The provisions of this division (E) shall be administered by
the County Electrical Inspector, who shall issue permits for and inspect all
electrical wires, conduits, raceways, and apparatus, and look after the
enforcement of the laws, rules, and regulations relating to the use of public
streets for electrical wires, supports, and apparatus in public and private
buildings.
         (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall answer any relevant questions
concerning, or give any desired information with respect to, the meaning of,
intent or application for this division (E); however, he or she cannot layout
work or act in the capacity of a consulting engineer for inexperienced
contractors, mechanics, or owners.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector shall keep, or cause to be kept, a full
and complete daily record of all work permits issued and inspections made.
   (F)   Inspection.
      (1)   All electrical work and installation of electrical equipment and
conductors covered by this division (F) shall be inspected by the Electrical
Inspector. No work shall be concealed unless approved by the Electrical
Inspector and tagged with a signed red “rough-in” inspection sticker.
      (2)   Failure by the Electrical Inspector to make the requested “rough-
in” inspection within three working days shall be considered an approval to
conceal such electrical work. When installation, repair, or alterations of
electrical wiring or equipment have been completed, the Electrical Inspector
shall be notified, and an inspection shall be made within three working days.
If the Electrical Inspector refuses to approve any electrical installation, he
or she shall notify the installer or contractor within three days. Such notice
shall state the name of the ordinance and section of the Electrical Code that
has been violated. The electrical work in violation shall be corrected,
removed, or an appeal filed in accordance with division (S) below within 30
days from the date the inspection was made. Failure to timely correct
violations not appealed may subject the installer or contractor liable to the
penalties set forth in KRS 198B.990 as provided by the Commonwealth Building
Code.
   (G)   Reinspection. The Electrical Inspector is hereby authorized to
reinspect all wiring, appliances, devices, fixtures, and equipment covered by
this division (G). When the installation of any such wiring, appliance, device,
fixture, or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the
person owning, using, or operating the same shall be notified to make the
necessary repairs or changes required to place such wiring, appliance, device,
fixture, or equipment in a safe condition, and shall have such work completed
within ten days after notification or within such further reasonable time as
may, upon request, be prescribed. All electrical wiring, apparatus, or
equipment within or attached to any building within the area of the county
subject to this division (G) may be systematically reinspected every two years.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or interfere with the Electrical
Inspector in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (H)   Power to disconnect service. The Electrical Inspector is authorized to
disconnect or order the discontinuance of electrical service to such conductors
or apparatus found to be in an unsafe or hazardous condition that poses an
imminent threat to life or property, or to have been installed without a
permit, or not in accordance with this division (H). He or she shall thereupon
post a written notice in a conspicuous place stating the reason why the
conductors or apparatus have been disconnected, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to remove the notice of disconnection or to reconnect such defective
conductors or apparatus until the same have been installed in a safe and secure
condition and have been approved for use by the Electrical Inspector.
   (I)   Certificate of compliance. The Electrical Inspector shall issue a
certificate of compliance when the electrical installation is completed and
found to comply with this section. No certificate shall be issued on any
incomplete work.
   (J)   Right of access to building. The Electrical Inspector shall have the
right, during reasonable hours, upon the showing of proper credentials, to
enter any building and to discharge his or her official duties or for the
purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation of any electrical
device or any electrical material contained therein, in accordance with the
Commonwealth Building Code Administration, § 113.4.
   (K)   Permits required and fees.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter, or repair
any electrical work covered by this division (K) without first obtaining a
permit from the Electrical Inspector. If the cost of an electric installation
is less than $200, a permit shall be required but no fee shall be charged. The
life of a permit may be extended, if necessary, upon application, but all
permits shall be void within 60 days if the work is not begun within that time.
If work for which a permit is required commences prior to obtaining a permit,
the fee hereinafter provided shall be double, but payment of such double fee
shall not relieve any person from full compliance with the requirements of this
division (K) in the execution of the work performed or any other penalties
prescribed. Permits shall be issued only to a contractor who has a valid
electrical contractor’s license issued by the commonwealth, except those issued
to the county, homeowners, or holders of a limited license, issued by the
commonwealth. Special one-time permits may be issued to others for the
installation of specialized systems.
      (2)   Electrical construction permit fees are hereby established as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family residential: $75 minimum or $0.05 per square foot,
whichever is greater;
         (b)   Multi-family residential: $75 first unit, plus $10 for each
additional unit;
         (c)   Commercial: 1.5% of electrical contract with a $75 minimum;
         (d)   Industrial: 1.5% of electrical contract with a $75 minimum;
         (e)   All electrical service change out: $35;
         (f)   All mobile home service pole installations: $35;
         (g)   Temporary service poles: $20; and
         (h)   Additional trips: $15.
      (3)    For the purpose of electrical permit fees, each condominium unit
shall be considered as single-family residential.
   (L)   Minor repairs accepted. Permits and inspection fees shall not be
required for minor repair work, such as repairing flush or snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints, and
repairing drop cords, nor for experimental electrical work of a temporary
nature in testing laboratories in electrical shops, educational institutions,
and the like.
   (M)   Permit to do own work. A permit to perform electrical work in or about
the home may be issued to a homeowner; provided, that all work is performed by
homeowner. The Electrical Inspector, however, shall not issue such permits
unless the person who is to perform the work is named in the permit and appears
before the Electrical Inspector and shows by answering such questions as may be
asked that said person has sufficient knowledge to properly perform such work.
If it is apparent from the character of the work performed that the homeowner
is not competent to perform the work under any permit issued, the Electrical
Inspector may require such portion of the work in violation to be changed,
altered, or repaired by a licensed electrical contractor at the expense of the
homeowner. A permit shall be issued without fee to such electrical contractor
and the permit to the homeowner shall be canceled.
   (N)   Permits for decorative lighting. Permits for temporary installations
for indoor or outdoor decorative lighting in public buildings or areas shall be
issued only when permission has been granted as follows.
      (1)   During festivals, fairs, conventions, and similar community events,
the Electrical Inspector may grant a special permit for a period not exceeding
ten days for the installation of approved systems of decorative lighting over
roadways or sidewalk areas. If an extension of time is desired, for not more
than 20 days, such permit may be renewed at the discretion of the Electrical
Inspector. A special permit from the Electrical Inspector shall be required for
any such installation to be maintained for a period of more than 30 days.
      (2)   A special permit from the Electrical Inspector shall be obtained
before any system of decorative lighting can be installed over any roadway or
sidewalk area when installed at a time when no festival, fair, convention, or
the like is in progress.
   (O)   Partial or working permit. When the exact amount of work to be done
under any permit cannot be definitely determined at the time of application for
a permit, the Electrical Inspector may issue a partial or working permit.
   (P)   Filing of drawings and specifications. Every person making application
for any permit to do electrical work under this division (P) may be required by
the Electrical Inspector to file a set of plans and specifications in
sufficient detail to enable the Electrical Inspector to determine if the work
will be in compliance with the rules, regulations, and provisions of this
division (P). A key to the symbols used shall accompany all plans. If mains,
feeders, branches, and distributing panels are shown on the plans, they shall
be designated by letters or numbers.
   (Q)   Necessary of approval. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
electrical connection to any electrical wiring or equipment until approval has
been given by the Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector is hereby
authorized to disconnect any electrical installation or equipment which has
been connected before the approval for service has been given. He or she shall
thereupon attach a written notice which shall state that the wiring or
equipment has been disconnected by the Electrical Inspector. It shall be
unlawful for any person to remove such notice or reconnect the wiring before
the same has been approved by the Electrical Inspector.
   (R)   Failure to correct defects. The Electrical Inspector is further
authorized to deny the issuance of a permit to any person licensed under the
provisions of this division (R) who fails to correct any defect, error, or
deficiency in any electrical work installed by him or her until such time as
such defects, errors, and deficiencies are corrected. It shall be unlawful to
perform any electrical work, other than correcting such deficiencies, during
the period additional permits are being denied.
   (S)   Appeal from decision of Electrical Inspector. Any person aggrieved by
any official decision or action taken by the Electrical Inspector in the
performance of his or her official duties, may appeal such decision to the
Commonwealth Electrical Advisory Committee in the manner provided by state law.
   (T)   State license requirements; examinations.
      (1)   Electrical licenses shall be of the types required and issued by
the commonwealth under KRS Ch. 227A.010 et seq.
      (2)   All electrical contractors, master electricians, and electricians
who work within the county shall obtain and keep in full force and effect, the
requisite license required by the commonwealth.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the installation,
alteration, or repair of electrical wiring, equipment, apparatus, or fixtures
in or about buildings and dwellings in the county unless said person has
obtained a master electrician’s, electrician’s, or electrical contractor’s
license; however, an apprentice or helper may install wires or make electrical
connections if he or she is employed under the supervision of a licensed
electrician. All electrical contractors shall employ only electricians licensed
as provided in this division (T) and such apprentices and helpers as are
necessary.
      (4)   Permits to perform electrical work shall be issued only to persons
or companies employing full-time persons holding an electrical contractor’s
license issued by the commonwealth.
      (5)   All electrical work shall be performed by electricians licensed by
the commonwealth, except helpers as deemed necessary. Licensed electricians
shall be on the job site and helpers shall be under the direct supervision of
licensed electricians.
   (U)   Liability for damages. This section shall not be constructed to affect
the responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling, or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by a defect therein. Neither the county or any of its agencies, boards,
inspectors, or employees shall assume any liability by reason of the
inspection, reinspection, or other examination of electrical work or equipment
authorized, or by reason of the certificate of compliance issued as provided in
this section, or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any equipment
authorized in this section.
(Ord. 272.5 (05), passed 5-19-2005) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.06 APPOINTMENTS OF THE OWENSBORO-DAVIESS COUNTY CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S
BUREAU.
   (A)   This section shall take precedence over the original order issued by
the County Fiscal Court setting up the Tourist Commission, if there is a
conflict between the original order and this section.
   (B)   The official name of the body which is to promote tourism, convention
and recreation in Daviess County, Kentucky, shall be designated as the
"Owensboro-Daviess County Convention and Visitors Bureau".
   (C)   To provide funds for the operation of the Commission, there is imposed
a transient room tax of 3% on the rent of every occupancy of a suite, room,
rooms, cabins, lodgings, campsites, or other accommodations charged by any
hotel, motel, inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campgrounds, recreational
vehicle parks, or any other place in which accommodations are regularly
furnished to transients for consideration or by any person that facilitates the
rental of the accommodations by brokering, coordinating, or in any other way
arranging for the rental of the accommodations in Daviess County, Kentucky (the
collecting parties or agents). Transiet room taxes shall not apply to rooms,
lodgings, campsites, or accommodations supplied for a continuous period of 30
days or more to a person.
   (D)   These collecting parties shall collect and pay the transient room tax
to the County Fiscal Court and the County Fiscal Court is authorized to take
all appropriate action to provide for the collection and enforcement of these
taxes.
   (E)   These taxes shall be paid to the County Fiscal Court no later than 30
days following the month in which said taxes were to have been collected. Each
collecting agent shall file a return in duplicate on a form which is provided
for said purpose, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
The failure to properly fill out and return said reporting form and taxes to
the appropriate agency shall result in such civil and criminal remedies as are
available in the Kentucky Revised Statutes for failure to make required
disposition of property.
   (F)   For the failure to pay said taxes within the required time as set out
above, a penalty of 6% shall be added to those accounts. This penalty of 6%
shall be levied against the total amount of tax which is overdue on the date in
which it is paid.
   (G)   In accordance with KRS 91A.390(3), a portion of the money collected
from the imposition of this tax, as determined by the County Fiscal Court, upon
the advice and consent of the County Convention and Visitors Bureau may be used
to finance the cost of acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of
facilities useful in the attraction and promotion of tourist and convention
business. The balance of the money collected from the imposition of this tax
shall be used for the purposes set forth in KRS 91A.350. Proceeds of the tax
shall not be used as a subsidy in any form to any hotel, motel or restaurant.
Money not expended by the Commission during any fiscal year shall be used to
make up a part of the Commission’s budget for its next fiscal year.
   (H)   After July 1, 2023, the Commission shall annually submit a budget and
request for funds for the operation of the Commission to the County Fiscal
Court.
      (1)   The annual budget shall be submitted no later than the first day of
April of each year.
      (2)   The annual budget proposed by the Commission shall include an
expenditure sufficient to cover all expenses anticipated to be incurred
relative to the annual audit as required by KRS 65A.030.
      (3)   The proposed annual budget shall be acted upon by the County Fiscal
Court, either through approval or amendment, before the thirtieth day of June
of each year.
      (4)   In the event that any proposed annual budget is not acted upon by
the County Fiscal Court before the June 30 date described above, the Commission
budget approved for the preceding year shall be automatically reinstated and
the Commission may operate under the terms of such budget until further action
by the County Fiscal Court.
      (5)   The County Fiscal Court prohibits the Commission to issue revenue
bonds or to borrow money beyond the fiscal year or enter into long-term
contracts without the written consent of the County Judge/Executive.
   (J)   The Commission shall further elect the officers as set out in the
statute, being a Chairman and Treasurer at its first meeting in July of each
year. The Commission shall further elect a Vice-Chairman to preside whenever
the Chairman is unable to be present at the meeting of the Commission.
   (K)   The Commission shall determine the depository of the Commission funds
and shall also determine a certified public accountant to make an annual or
special audit.
   (L)   The Treasurer and any other officer of the Commission writing checks
and handling funds shall be bonded in an amount commensurate with the largest
amount of money on hand in any given year. The Commission shall make an
itemized quarterly finance report to the County Fiscal Court showing the
expenses and income for each month.
   (M)   The year for accounting purposes shall be based on a fiscal year,
commensurate with the county, beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of each year.
(Ord. KOC 150.13 (2012), passed 9-20-2012; Ord. KOC 150.15 (2022), passed 10-
20-2022; Ord. KOC 150.17 (2023), passed 4-20-2023)
Cross-reference:
For provisions regarding the transient room tax for the operation of the
Convention Center, see §
30.15
§ 31.07 COUNTY LIBRARY; BOARD.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court does hereby establish an independent County
Library which shall provide library services for all residents of the county.
   (B)   (1)   The management and control of this County Library shall be
vested in a five-member Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The County Judge/Executive, with the approval of the County Fiscal
Court shall appoint the initial five-member Board, whose terms of office shall
conform to the provisions of KRS 173.490.
      (3)   Successor Board members shall be appointed by the County Fiscal
Court as provided in KRS 173.490.
      (4)   The County Fiscal Court grants to the Board of Trustees all of the
duties and powers to act that are provided in county library service funded
solely by a special ad valorem taxing district.
   (C)   In order to provide funding for the proper maintenance and operation
of the county library service, the County Fiscal Court does hereby establish,
pursuant to KRS 173.470, KRS 65.182, KRS 67.715, and KRS 67.083, the County
Public Library Taxing District.
      (1)   The County Fiscal Court does hereby establish a special ad valorem
tax for the Library District, and fixes the tax rate at $0.04 per each on $100
of the assessed valuation of all property in the District.
      (2)   The tax rate established above shall be subject to the provisions
of KRS Ch. 132 as to subsequent modifications.
   (D)   The City of Owensboro obtains a legal determination that the County
Fiscal Court has the legal authority to establish the Library Board of Trustees
and the special ad valorem taxing district so that the City of Owensboro may
comply with the provisions of KRS 173.395 by:
      (1)   Dissolving the city’s public library for the purposes of
consolidating library services into the County Library District;
      (2)   Removing any city tax that was levied pursuant to KRS 173.310 for
the specific purpose of establishing and maintaining the city library; and
      (3)   Transferring the assets of the city library to the County Library
Board of Trustees.
   (E)   This section shall only become effective upon the occurrence of all of
the events specified in division (D) above.
(Ord. KOC 220.11 (95), passed 7-19-1995)
§ 31.08 AIRPORT BOARD.
   (A)   The Airport Board has and shall continue to maintain errors and
omissions insurance covering the members of the local Airport Board.
   (B)   In the event an action is initiated which results in a judgment award
against the Board or any of its members for which standard errors and omissions
insurance would provide coverage, the county shall hold harmless said Board
member or members, as the case may be, from any personal liability resulting
from said action which would exceed the coverage provided by the current
insurance policy or policies in force at the time of said action.
   (C)   The County Fiscal Court hereby declares that an emergency does exist
and pursuant to the provisions of KRS 67.078(2) suspends the requirements of
KRS 67.077.
   (D)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 150.2, passed 6-5-1986)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
31.05 or failing to conform to any of its provisions, or failing to obey any
order of the Electrical Inspector issued pursuant to §
31.05 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250, or
imprisoned for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 272.5 (05), passed 5-19-2005)
APPENDIX A: 2023 REAPPORTIONMENT PLAN FOR THE COUNTY
 
Name 2020 Census Population County Commission District
Name                      2020 Census Population County Commission District
Owensboro #1              2,568                  West
Owensboro #2              3,628                  West
Owensboro #3              1,831                  West
Owensboro #5              2,103                  West
Owensboro #6              1,583                  Central
Owensboro #7              4,215                  Central
Owensboro #8              2,055                  West
Owensboro #10             2,491                  West
Owensboro #11             2,662                  Central
Owensboro #12             956                    West
Owensboro #13             2,762                  West
Owensboro #14             4,324                  Central
Owensboro #15             998                    East
Owensboro #19             2,834                  East
Owensboro #20             4,479                  Central
Owensboro #22             577                    Central
Owensboro #28             1,375                  Central
Owensboro #29             2,190                  Central
Owensboro #30             1,858                  Central
Owensboro #35             838                    West
Owensboro #36             1,120                  Central
Owensboro #38             2,185                  Central
Owensboro #39             1,265                  Central
Owensboro #40             1,859                  West
Owensboro #43             1,152                  Central
Owensboro #46             2,151                  East
Owensboro #50 - No Voters 20                     West
Southtown                 1,395                  West
Northtown                 2,552                  West
Saint Martin's            2,110                  West
Westside                  1,268                  West
Sorgho                    2,394                  West
Stanley                   1,011                  West
Saint Joseph              1,079                  West
West Louisville           687                    West
Pleasant Ridge            1,306                  Central
Utica                     1,259                  Central
Southern Oaks             336                    Central
Whitesville               2,654                  East
Masonville                2,525                  Central
Habit                     1,358                  East
Knottsville               2,054                  East
Maceo                     1,641                  East
Yelvington                1,644                  East
Fields                    723                    Central
North Seven Hills         1,416                  East
Philpot                   2,055                  East
Easteview                 3,184                  East
Rivergate                 1,909                  East
Ensor                     1,117                  East
Thorobred East            883                    East
Pleasant Valley           1,260                  East
Windridge                 842                    East
Thorobred West            706                    East
Heartlands                2,305                  East
Islandview                969                    East
Lake Forest               2,591                  East
 
 
 2020 CENSUS POPULATION BY DISTRICT
 West District Central District Eastern District
                         2020 CENSUS POPULATION BY DISTRICT
                         West District Central District Eastern District
                         2,568
                         3,628
                         1,831
                         2,103
                                       1,583
                                       4,215
                         2,055
                         2,491
                                       2,662
                         9,56
                         2,762
                                       4,324
                                                        998
                                                        2,834
                                       4,479
                                       577
                                       1,375
                                       2,190
                                       1,858
                         838
                                       1,120
                                       2,185
                                       1,265
                         1,859
                                       1,152
                                                        2,151
                         20
                         1,395
                         2,552
                         2,552
                         2,110
                         1,268
                         2,394
                         1,011
                         1,079
                         687
                                       1,306
                                       1,259
                                       336
                                                        2,654
                                       2,525
                                                        1,358
                                                        2,054
                                                        1,641
                                                        1,644
                                       723
                                                        1,416
                                                        2,055
                                                        3,184
                                                        1,909
                                                        1,117
                                                        883
                                                        1,260
                                                        842
                                                        706
                                                        2,305
                                                        969
                                                        2,591
Total by District        33,607        35,134           34,571
Total for All Districts  103,312
Average District Total   34,437        34,437           34,437
Amount of Difference     -830          697              134
Percentage of Difference -2.41%        2.02%            0.39%
 
(Ord. KOC 111.4 (2011), passed 8-18-2011; KOC 111.5 (2023), passed 11-14-2023)
APPENDIX B: 2023 VOTING PRECINCTS AND COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c5346ab805f880cbf915a230adaa9616f93b2edc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1060.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c5346ab805f880cbf915a230adaa9616f93b2edc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1062.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c5346ab805f880cbf915a230adaa9616f93b2edc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1064.jpg]
(Ord. KOC 111.4 (2011), passed 8-18-2011; KOC 111.5 (2023), passed 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 32: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
32.15   Policy statement
   
32.16   Prohibitions and conflicts of interest
Statement of Financial Interest
   
32.30   Who must file
   
32.31   When to file statements; amended statements
   
32.32   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
32.33   Control and maintenance of the statement of financial interest
   
32.34   Contents of the financial interest statements
Nepotism
   
32.45   Prohibitions
   
32.46   Exceptions
Enforcement
   
32.60   Board of Ethics created
   
32.61   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
32.62   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
32.63   Notice of hearings
   
32.64   Hearing procedure
   
32.65   Appeals
   
32.66   Limitation of actions
   
32.67   Advisory opinions
   
32.68   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or other
entity created by the city or county, either individually or jointly with any
other unit of government.
   BOARD. The Ownesboro-Daviess County Board of Ethics or its designee.
   CANDIDATE. Any person who has filed a petition for candidacy with the County
Clerk for the elective offices of the Mayor, County Judge/Executive, members of
each respective governing body, County Clerk, County Attorney, Sheriff, Jailer,
Coroner, Surveyor, Justice of the Peace, and Constable but does not include
candidates for election to any school board.
   CITY. The City of Owensboro, Kentucky.
   CODE. The Intracounty Code of Ethics of the City of Ownesboro and Daviess
County, Kentucky.
   CONTRACT. Any agreement for the sale, lease or purchase of any interest in
real or personal property or the provision of any service.
   COUNTY. The County of Daviess, Kentucky.
   DEPENDENT FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child (including a
stepchild) residing in the filer’s household, or an individual claimed as a
dependent for tax purposes by the filer.
   DESIGNATED EMPLOYEE. The Deputy Judge/Executive, County Treasurer, County
Engineer, County Parks Director, County Fire Chief, City Manager, Assistant
City Manager, City Community Development Director, City Fire Chief, City Police
Chief, City Engineer, and City Director of Finance and Support Services, City
Director of Parks and Recreation, City Public Events Director, City Public
Works Director and City Deputy Director of Public Works, Manager of Ownesboro-
Daviess County Airport, Director of Owensboro Riverport Authority, Executive
Director of Regional Water Resource Agency, Board Chairman of Regional Water
Resource Agency, Director of Human Relations Commission, and Director of
Elzabeth Munday Senior Center.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. The City Mayor, County Judge/Executive, members of the
governing bodies of the city and county, County Clerk, County Attorney,
Sheriff, Jailer, Coroner, Justice of the Peace, and Constable but does not
include members of any school board.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, child, parent, sister, brother, grandparent,
grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
daughter-in-law, son-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother or half-sister.
   FILER. The person responsible fo filing the statement of financial interest.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, child (including stepchild), brother,
sister, or individual claimed as a dependent for tax purposes by the public
official.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Includes, but is not limited to, all elected officials and
appointed officials and all employees of city and county government.
   STATEMENT. Statement of financial interest.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.5, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 6-2016, passed
7-19-2016)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 32.15 POLICY STATEMENT.
   Public officials must maintain their conduct at the highest standards in
accordance with the declaration of policy set forth in this Code of Ethics
(Code). No public official shall knowingly make a false statement or report, or
in any manner commit any fraud, conceal any wrongdoing or knowingly withhold
any information about wrongdoing, in connection with their employment or
service with the city, county or agency in connection with the work-related
conduct or service of any public official.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.16 PROHIBITIONS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   All public officials shall actively avoid conflicting interests. Such
conflicting interests include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Use of public property. No public official shall request, use, or
permit the use or removal of any publicly owned or supported property, labor,
service, or personnel for the personal or financial gain of any person or
entity, other than city, county or agency use, except when such publicly owned
or supported property, labor, service, or personnel is available to the general
public or if such is provided as a matter of stated policy ofr the use of
public officials in the conduct of official business.
   (B)   Political activities. No appointment to, or employment in, any city,
county or agency position shall be dependent of political activity. No public
official shall require any person to engage in any political activity as a
condition of appointment or employment.
   (C)   Confidentiality. All public officials shall maintain strict,
confidentiality and not misuse for personal or financial gain any and all
matters exempt from public disclosure under KRS Chapter 61, and shall maintain
confidentiality with respect to discussions, decisions, or official actions
that pertain to industrial recruitment, unless disclosure is required by
applicable state or local statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances.
   (D)   Performance of official functions. Public officials shall:
      (1)   Discharge public duties without favor, compensation or reward,
except from the city or county or agency involved;
      (2)   Not use or attempt to use their official position to secure
unwarranted personal or financial gain, or to avoid consequences of illegal
acts, for themselves or others; or
      (3)   Not act in their official capacity in any matter when the public
official or a family member has a direct or indirect financial or personal
involvement, or when the public official has reason to know that their action
may result in a personal financial benefit for the public official or family
member.
   (E)   Gifts.
      (1)   No public official shall accept or solicit directly or indirectly,
any gift (whether in the form of a gratuity, money, service, loan, travel,
entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise) from any person, corporation, or
other legal entity that the public official should know is interested directly
or indirectly in any manner in business dealings with the city, county or
agency.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) a public official may accept:
         (a)   Unsolicited, occasional gratuities, not to exceed $50 from any
one source;
         (b)   Unsolicited gratuities, regardless of value, when such
gratuities are offered to and remain the property of the city, county or
agency;
         (c)   Admission to events to which they are invited in their official
capacity as a public official;
         (d)   Gratuities offered in appreciation for that public official
speaking or making a presentation before any group, provided that such speech
or presentation is both related to the public official’s employment or
activities outside of municipal service and unrelated to the public official’s
service with the city, county or agency;
         (e)   Campaign contributions or services in connection with their
political campaign;
         (f)   Loans made in the ordinary course of business;
         (g)   Gifts received from family members; and/or
         (h)   An occasional non-monetary award publicly presented by a
nonprofit organization for performance of public service.
   (F)   Financial interests. No public official, or their immediate family
member, shall directly or through other legal entities undertake, execute,
hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded,
or granted by the city, county or agency, which they represent, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (F) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an appointed public official was appointed to the office,
or before a public official was hired by the city, county or agency; provided
that if the contract is renewable, the prohibition shall apply to any renewal
of the contract that occurs after the public official is elected or appointed,
or after the public official is hired, unless the provisions of division (F)(2)
are satisfied;
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (F) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
public official is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, or awarding, or managing the contract, in which case the
following provisions shall apply:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract and the nature of the public
official’s or their immediate family member’s interest in the contract are
publicly disclosed at a meeting of the governing body of the city, county or
agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city, county or agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city, county or
agency that the contract with the public official or their immediate family
member is in the best interests of the public and the city, county, or agency
because of price, supply or other specific reasons;
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city, county or agency before the contract is executed;
and
         (e)   The public official shall refrain from taking any official
action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
   (G)   Private employment. No public official, either currently serving or
within one year after leaving their position with the city, county or agency,
shall represent any private interest in any action, litigation or proceeding
before or against the interests of the city, county or agency for which they
serve. This standard of conduct shall not be construed to prevent a public
official from appearing, without compensation, before any governmental body of
the city, county or agency to express personal views as a private citizen.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
32.99
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST
§ 32.30 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following officers and employees of the city, county or agency shall
file an annual statement with the Board.
   (A)   Elected officials;
   (B)   Candidates;
   (C)   Members of the Metropolitan Planning and Zoning Commission;
   (D)   Members of the Board created by this chapter;
   (E)   Officers and employees with procurement authority exceeding $1,000 per
purchase; and
   (F)   Designated employees.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.5, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 6-2016, passed
7-19-2016)
§ 32.31 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Statements shall be filed no later than 5:00 p.m. on March 31 each
year, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city, county or agency shall file the initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date of appointment.
      (2)   All candidates for the elective offices defined herein shall filed
the annual statement required in §
32.15 above with 30 days after the dat on which said person becomes a
candidate.
   (B)   The Board may grant reasonable extension of time for filing a
statement for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a statement that has been filed with the Board, the filer shall submit an
amended statement with the Board, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of
the material change.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.5, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 6-2016, passed
7-19-2016)
§ 32.32FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Board.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), the Board shall deliver a copy of
the form to each person required to file the statement, by first class mail or
hand delivery, no later than January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The Board shall deliver a copy of the form to each person who is a
candidate for an elective city office, by first class mail or hand delivery, no
later than August 31 in the year in which the election is to be held.
   (D)   The failure of the Board, to deliver a copy of the form to any person
shall not relieve the filer of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.33 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The Board shall be the official custodian of the statements and shall
have control over the maintenance of the statements. The statements shall be
maintained by the Board as public documents, available for public inspection
immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement shall be retained by the Board for a period of three years
after filing, except that upon the expiration of one year after any election
for which a candidate, who was not otherwise required to file a statement, was
not elected or nominated, the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements
or copies of those statements filed by the person. No public records shall be
destroyed in any manner inconsistent with the record retention schedule
required by the Kentucky State Department of Libraries and Archives.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.5, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 6-2016, passed
7-19-2016)
§ 32.34 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement shall include the following information for the
preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment; and
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and filer’s spouse.
   (B)   Except for the individuals listed in §
32.30(C), the filer shall disclose the following information as it applies to
the filer and the filer’s dependent family:
      (1)   Each source of income exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, rents, etc.).
      (2)   The name and address of any business in which at any time during
the preceding calendar year there was an interest of $10,000, at fair market
value of 5% ownership interest or more.
      (3)   Each source by name and address of any creditor for which there is
a personal liability of more than $10,000, except debts arising from the
purchase of consumer goods or a primary residence.
      (4)   Each source, by name and address, of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members during the preceding calendar year.
   (C)   The individuals in §
32.30(C), and only those in §
32.30(C) shall list the location of all real property within the county, other
than the filer’s primary residence, in which the filer or the filer’s dependent
family member had during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or
more, and designate such property as commercial, residential, or agricultural.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall require the disclosure of any specific
dollar amounts nor the names of individual clients or customers of businesses
listed as sources of income.
   (E)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the filer.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.4, passed 3-1-1995; Ord. C.5, passed 9-17-
1996; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
NEPOTISM
§ 32.45 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No immediate family member of any elected official or designated
employee shall be appointed to and/or employed in any office or position of
employment if the elected official or designated employee will have any
responsibility, directly or indirectly, to supervise, manage or control the
work of the immediate family member.
   (B)   No elected official or designated employee shall influence, advocate,
or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer or advancement to an
office or position with the city or county of an immediate family member.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.46 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions of §
32.45 shall not apply to any person elected or appointed to a city or county
office, or hired as an employee, prior to December 31, 1994.
   (B)   The provisions of §
32.45 shall not apply or be interpreted to prevent the candidacy or election of
any otherwise qualified candidates from being elected to a public office of the
city or county.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall disqualify any person from becoming a
designated employee provided the appointing authority is in compliance with §
32.45(B), nor shall such immediate family member be dismissed, transferred, or
otherwise adversely impacted.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.60 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board which shall have the authorities,
duties and responsibilities as set forth in this code to enforce the provisions
of this code.
   (B)   The city and county shall provide the Board, either directly or
indirectly or by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials,
supplies, and staff needed for the conduct of its business.
   (C)   The Board shall consist of three members: one shall be appointed by
the Mayor and approved by the City Commission; one shall be appointed by the
County Judge Executive and approved by the County Fiscal Court; and one shall
be appointed by the Daviess County Bar Association and approved by the City
Commission and County Fiscal Court. No member of the Board shall hold any
elected or appointed office; whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment or representation, which shall not include the provision of legal
services, with the city, county or agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years. No more than two of the members shall be of the same political
party. Each member of the Board shall have been a resident of the county for at
least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the
county throughout the term in office. The members of the Board shall be chosen
by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. Any member may be reappointed for up to
three consecutive terms.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled within 60 days, subject to the
approval of the appropriate legislative body for that appointment. If a vacancy
is not filled within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board shall fill the
vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
terms.
   (E)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the city commission or County Fiscal Court, but shall be
reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board shall annually elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson from among the membership. The chairperson shall be
the presiding officer and a full voting member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board shall be held, as necessary, upon the call of
the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board who has a conflict of interest with
respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall disclose the nature
of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter,
and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote of
each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (J)   A member of the Board may be removed by the City Commission or County
Fiscal Court depending upon which body approved the appointment for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board is
removed from office, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for hearing
before the body which approved the appointment and in the case of the member
appointed by the Bar Association, a hearing shall be before a body composed of
two members of the City Commission and two members of the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. C.4, passed 3-1-1995; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-
19-2016)
§ 32.61 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board shall have jurisdiction over the administration of this code and
imposition of the penalties prescribed in this code. The Board may:
   (A)   Initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints, hold
hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged
violations of the provision of this code.
   (B)   Issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requesting persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   Administer oaths and to issue orders requesting the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   Refer any information concerning violations of this code to the Mayor,
County Judge Executive, City Commission, County Fiscal Court, County Attorney,
or other appropriate person or body, as necessary.
   (E)   Render advisory opinions in accordance with §
32.67.
   (F)   Control and maintain all statements that are required to be filed by
this code and to ensure that the statements are available for public inspection
in accordance with the requirements of this code and the Kentucky Open Records
Act.
   (G)   Develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its business
that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of the city
or county.
   (H)   Adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as necessary,
to implement the provisions of this code, provided that the rules, regulations,
and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this code or any state
or Federal law.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.62 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this code
shall be submitted to the Board. All complaints shall be in writing, signed by
the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by the
Board, The Board shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant
within ten working days from the date of receipt. The Board shall forward
within ten working days to each person who is the subject of the complaint, a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board shall
conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained in the
complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the complaint
an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The person shall
have the right to be represented by counsel to appear and be heard under oath,
and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board shall be confidential, to the extent allowable by the
Kentucky Open Meeting and Records Acts, until a final determination is made by
the Board, except that the Board may turn over to the Commonwealth Attorney or
County Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this code. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, or is frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all persons against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   (1)   If the Board concludes, based ipon its preliminary inquiry, that
the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations sufficient to
establish a probable cause that a violation exists, the Board shall notify the
person who is the subject of the complaint and may initiate a hearing to
determine whether there has been a violation. Should the Board determine
mitigating circumstance exists, such as lack of:
         (a)   Significant economic advantage or gain by the officer or
employee;
         (b)   Economic loss to the city or county and its taxpayers; or
         (b)   Significant impact on public confidence in city or county
government issue.
      (2)   The Board may issue in writing a confidential reprimand to the
person and provide a copy to the governing body of the city or county.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provisions of this code by any person shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, pursuant to KRS 523.040.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.63 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board determines that a hearing is necessary, the Board shall issue
an order setting the matter for a hearing. This hearing shall eb conducted
within 30 days from the date of the order. The Board may allow a continuance
for just cause. The order setting the matter for hearing, together with a copy
of any regulation of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the
person against whom the complaint was filed within 24 hours of the time the
order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.64 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearing conducted by the Board. The hearings shall
be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance with any
additional rules and regulation adopted by the a Board to afford all parties
due process.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the person against whom the
complaint was filed, or their representative, shall have a reasonable
opportunity to examine all documents and records obtained or prepared by the
Board in connection with the matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the
person against whom the complaint was filed, or their representative, of any
exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, introduce exhibits, cross-examine witnesses, submit
evidence, and be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the right to
be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board shall be public, unless the members vote to
go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall begin
deliberations in executive session for the purpose of reviewing the evidence
before it and making a determination whether a violation of this Code has been
proven. Within 30 days after completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a
written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this Code
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the person against whom the complaint was filed and to the party who filed the
complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this Code, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor, County Judge Executive, City
Commission and County Fiscal Court.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the City Commission and County Fiscal
Court that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000 to the City or County treasury as directed by the Board.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this Code or state laws to
the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.65 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this Code
by the Board may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of the jurisdiction
within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board by filing a
petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall transmit to the
Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.66 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this Code must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered but in no event later than four years after the
violation occurred.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.67 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   Upon its own initiative, the Board may render advisory opinions
concerning matters under its jurisdiction, or when requested by any Public
Official.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this code for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.68 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or
otherwise brings to the attention of the Board or any other agency or official
of the city or county or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to
an alleged violation of this code shall not be subject to reprisal by any
public official.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit disciplinary or punitive action if a
public official discloses information which they know:
      (1)   To be false or which they disclose with reckless disregard for its
truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this code,
any public official who is found by the Board to have violated any provision of
this code shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a
civil fine imposed by the Board not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by
the city or county in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
code, any public official who is found by the Board to have violated any
provision of this code, may be ordered to forfeit to the city, county or agency
an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the public official is
determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city or county in a civil
action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the
forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to any and all other penalties which may be imposed under
this code, a finding by the Board that a public official of the city, county or
agency is guilty of a violation of this code shall be sufficient cause for
removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the governing
body of the city, county or agency, or by any other officer or agency having
the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any
public official for a violation of this code shall be taken in accordance with
all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city, county, and all
applicable laws of the commonwealth.
   (D)   Any violation of §
32.16(F) is a Class A misdemeanor, pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter
61, and upon conviction of the public official, the court may void any contract
entered into in violation of §
32.16(F).
   (E)   Any person who intentionally files a statement, as specified in §§
32.30 et seq., which the filer knows to contain false information or
intentionally omits required information, or files an otherwise fraudulent
Statement, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, pursuant to KRS 523.040.
   (F)   Signing a statement containing a material misstatement or omission
will be considered a violation. Anyone who fails to comply with §
32.31(A) filing requirements shall be fined $25 for each day they are in
noncompliance.
   (G)   Any penalty collected shall be paid to the City or County Treasury as
directed by the Board.
(Ord. C.3, passed 12-28-1994; Ord. 6-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND COMMITTEES
Section
   
33.01   Attendance policy
   
33.02   Confidentiality/public disclosure
   
33.03   Meetings and officers
§ 33.01 ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Application. This attendance policy shall apply to all citizens
appointed by the County Fiscal Court to any official board, commission,
authority, committee or other public body created by the County Fiscal Court
and to any and all other members of non-county boards, commissions, authorities
or committees appointed by the County Judge/Executive or County Fiscal Court
except to the extent that it conflicts with federal, state and local laws.
However, the requirements of this policy shall not apply to county boards,
commissions, authorities or committees governed by a written attendance and
confidentiality policy, if the individual board, commission, authority or
committee’s policy provides a more restrictive requirement.
   (B)   Attendance requirement.
      (1)   Current members (as described in this section) shall attend a
minimum of 75% of all regular and special meetings of their respective board,
commission, authority or committee, during any 12-month period after January 1,
2014.
      (2)   Members appointed after the effective date of this policy shall
attend a minimum of 75% of all regular and special meetings during the 12-month
period commencing with his or her appointment to the respective board,
commission, authority or committee.
      (3)   The Judge/Executive of the County Fiscal Court, with the consent of
the County Fiscal Court, may remove and replace any citizen appointed by the
County Fiscal Court to a board, commission, authority or committee who does not
attend a minimum of 75% of all regular and specially called meetings or who
misses three consecutive regular and specially-called board, commission,
authority or committee meetings within a 12-month period.
(Ord. KOC 121.1 (2014), passed 5-1-2014)
§ 33.02 CONFIDENTIALITY/PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   All county board, commission, authority and committee members shall
maintain strict confidentiality with regard to any and all matters exempt from
public disclosure under KRS Ch. 61, and particularly with respect to
discussions, decisions or official actions that pertain to personnel, pending
or threatened litigation, property acquisition and industrial recruitment.
   (B)   All members of boards, commissions, authorities and committees
appointed by the County Fiscal Court shall comply with all local, state and
federal open meetings and open records rules, regulations and statutes.
(Ord. KOC 121.1 (2014), passed 5-1-2014)
§ 33.03 MEETINGS AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Meetings. Any official board, commission, authority, committee or
public body created by the County Fiscal Court shall meet at least annually to
conduct the business directed by the County Fiscal Court. If the board,
commission, authority, committee or other public body does not meet during a
12- month period, the County Fiscal Court, at its discretion, may disband the
board, commission, authority, committee or public body and repeal its enabling
ordinance.
   (B)   Officers. Any official board, commission, authority, committee or
other public body created by the County Fiscal Court shall elect annually a
chairperson, a secretary and any other officers the board, commission,
authority, committee or public body deems necessary. The secretary shall record
the attendance of all members at each meeting and provide the attendance report
to the County Fiscal Court in December of each year.
(Ord. KOC 121.1 (2014), passed 5-1-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Transportation vehicle standards
   
50.003   Transportation routes
   
50.004   Open burning
   
50.005   Open dumping
   
50.006   Landfill dumping
   
50.007   Solid waste reused
   
50.008   Rules and regulations
   
50.009   Prohibited practices
   
50.010   Prohibition on littering
   
50.011   Vehicle permit display
   
50.012   Transportation without permit
   
50.013   Payment of costs
   
50.014   Environmental remediation fee
   
50.015   Savings clause
   
50.016   Solid waste management fee
   
50.017   Franchises for municipal solid waste
   
50.018   Effective date
Storage of Solid Waste
   
50.030   Storage containers required
   
50.031   Solid waste to be stored in a manner prescribed by ordinance
   
50.032   Standards for residential storage containers
   
50.033   Standards for residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial
use storage containers
   
50.034   Air-tight containers
   
50.035   Yard waste
   
50.036   Storage containers not in compliance
   
50.037   Medical waste
Collection and Disposal of Solid Waste
   
50.050   County responsibility defined
   
50.051   Collection points
   
50.052   Bulky waste
   
50.053   Authority for collectors to enter private property
   
50.054   Collection frequency
   
50.055   Collector’s responsibilities defined
   
50.056   Prohibitions
Permits
   
50.070   Permits required
   
50.071   Permits by rule
   
50.072   Insurance requirements
   
50.073   Permit application
   
50.074   Permit issuance
   
50.075   Application denial
   
50.076   Annual fee
   
50.077   Inspection
   
50.078   Permit suspension
   
50.079   Injunctive relief
   
50.080   Permit relief
   
50.081   Permit conditions
Public Nuisances Related to Waste Management and Disposal
   
50.095   Notification
   
50.096   Noncompliance
   
50.097   Cost recovery
Enforcement
   
50.110   Notice of violation
   
50.111   Injunctive relief
   
50.112   Appeal
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Operations for the production of agricultural or
horticultural crops, including, but not limited to livestock, livestock
products, poultry, poultry products, grain, hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco,
timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants, including
provisions for dwellings for persons and their families who are engaged in the
above AGRICULTURAL USE on their tract.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any non-hazardous waste resulting from the production
and processing of on-the-farm agricultural products, including manures,
pruning, and crop residues.
   APPROVED INCINERATOR. An incinerator that complies with all current and
applicable regulations of the responsible local, state, and federal
environmental protection agencies.
   BULKY WASTE. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of non-combustible
waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial, institutional, or
agricultural establishments which are either too large or too heavy to be
safely and conveniently loaded into solid waste transportation vehicles.
   CABINET. The Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet of the
commonwealth.
   COLLECTION.
      (1)   Removal of solid waste from the designated pick-up location to the
transfer vehicle. Acceptable COLLECTION practices shall consist of the
following:
         (a)   Door-to-door collection;
         (b)   Direct access to a staffed convenience center or transfer
facility; and
         (c)   Use of collection boxes.
      (2)   COLLECTION includes collection for purposes of recycling.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person, party, company, or corporation who handles
and hauls solid waste over the road for a fee or other form of compensation.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste which results from the
construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition of structures and roads, and
from the disposal of uncontaminated solid waste consisting of vegetation from
land clearing and grubbing, utility line maintenance, and seasonal and storm-
related cleanup. Such waste includes, but is not limited to: bricks, concrete,
and other masonry materials; soil, rock, wood, wall coverings, plaster,
drywall, plumbing fixtures, tree stumps, saw dust, leaves, paper, paper
products, metals, furniture, insulation, roofing, glass, plastics that are not
sealed in a manner that conceals other waste, electric wiring, and components
(containing no liquids or hazardous metals) that are incidental to any of the
above; and other inert waste as may be approved by the Cabinet. This definition
shall not include: garbage, electrical fixtures containing hazardous liquids,
hazardous material spill residues, hazardous waste, whole tires, drums,
liquids, fuel tanks, or any other waste which the county landfill is not
permitted to accept for disposal by the Cabinet.
   CONVENIENCE CENTER. Any facility that is staffed and open during normal
operating hours for the collection and subsequent transportation of municipal
solid wastes and recyclables.
   COUNTY. The County of Daviess of the Commonwealth.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic or paper sacks
specifically designed for the storage of solid waste.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any waste into or on any land or water so that such waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any waters, including ground waters.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or suite of two or more rooms located within a
building or portion thereof and forming a single habitable unit with facilities
which are used or are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and
eating, and also includes a tent, cabin, camping trailer, mobile home, boarding
house, hotel, or motel.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any discarded material or material intended to be
discarded, or substance or combination of such substances intended to be
discarded, in any form which, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible,
or incapacitating, reversible illness or pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   JUDGE/EXECUTIVE or DESIGNEE. The County Judge/Executive or such person or
persons as the Judge/Executive may designate to carry out the responsibilities
required by this chapter.
   LITTERING. Placing, discarding, throwing, releasing, spilling, or depositing
solid waste into the environment, on the land or ground, or in any lake,
stream, ditch, river, pond, or other waterway.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed for
more than one dwelling unit under one roof.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Household solid waste and commercial solid waste.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, is in
actual possession of any dwelling unit or any other real property, either as an
owner or as a tenant.
   OPEN BURNING. Burning of any matter in such manner that the combustion
resulting from burning is emitted directly into the outdoor atmosphere without
passing through a stack or chimney, but does not include: fires set for cooking
of food for human consumption other than commercial premises; fires set for
recreational or ceremonial purposes; small fires set by construction workers
and other workers for comfort heating purposes; provided, that excessive or
unusual smoke is not created; fires set for the purpose of weed abatement,
disease, and pest prevention; fires set for prevention of a fire hazard,
including the disposal of dangerous material where no safe alternative is
available; fires set for bona fide instruction and training of public
employees, including volunteer fire fighting units, and industrial employees in
the method of fire fighting training; and fires set for disposal of natural
growth for land clearing, and the trees and tree limbs fell by storms;
provided, that no extraneous material such as tires or heavy oil is used to
cause ignition or aid combustion and the burning is done on sunny days with no
stronger than mild winds.
   OPEN DUMP. Any facility or site used for the disposal of solid waste which
does not have a valid permit issued pursuant to this chapter or by the Cabinet
or does not meet the environmental performance standards established under
regulations promulgated by the Cabinet. All disposal facilities for clean
waste, yard waste, or any other type of waste must be registered with the
County Solid Waste Coordinator.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation
(including a government corporation), partnership, association, federal agency,
state agency, city, commission, political subdivision of the commonwealth, or
any other entity or any interstate body.
   PROCESSING. Incinerating, composting, baling, shredding, salvaging,
compacting, and other processes whereby solid waste or solid waste containers
are modified or solid waste quantity is reduced or otherwise modified.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Illegal waste disposal practices that include, but are not
limited to, open burning, open dumps, or littering, which practices are deemed
to be a nuisance under applicable law.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS. A building or portion thereof, providing
complete housekeeping facilities for one or more persons, or one family.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining (excluding coal mining wastes, coal mining
by-products, refuse, and overburden), agricultural operations, and from
community activities, but does not include those materials including, but not
limited to, sand, soil, rock, gravel, or bridge debris extracted as part of a
public road construction project funded wholly or in part with state funds,
recovered material, tire-derived fuel, special wastes as designated by KRS
224.50 through 224.760, solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, manure,
crops, crop residue, or a combination thereof which are placed on the soil for
return to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners, or solid or dissolved
material in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point
sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, 86 Stat. 880, or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as
defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 923:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by
stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other service and non-
manufacturing activities, excluding tire-derived fuel and household and
industrial solid waste;
      (2)   HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE. Solid waste, including garbage and trash
generated by single- and multiple-family residences, hotels, motels,
bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, and recreational areas such as
picnic areas, parks, and campgrounds, but it does not include tire-derived
fuel;
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by manufacturing or
industrial processes that is not a hazardous waste or a special waste as
designated by KRS 224.50 through 224.760, including, but not limited to, waste
resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electric power
generation; fertilizer or agricultural chemicals; food and related products or
by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel manufacturing; leather and
leather products; nonferrous metals manufacturing/foundries; organic chemicals;
plastics and resins manufacturing; pulp and paper industry; rubber and
miscellaneous plastic products, except tire-derived fuel; stone, glass, clay,
and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation equipment; and
water treatment; and
      (4)   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Household solid waste and commercial solid
waste.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. A person designated, authorized, or permitted by the
county to collect, transport, sort, process, or dispose of solid waste
generated within county.
   SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR. A person appointed by the County Fiscal Court whose
responsibilities include assisting the Judge/Executive or his or her designee
in the administration of this chapter and who is authorized to enforce of the
requirements of this chapter, the criminal littering laws of the commonwealth,
and the provisions of KRS 224.40 through 224.100.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The administration of solid waste activities
including collection, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment,
and disposal.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any facility for collection, storage,
transportation, transfer, processing, treatment, or disposal of solid waste,
whether such facility is associated with facilities generating such wastes or
otherwise, but does not include a container located on property where solid
waste is generated and which is used solely for the purpose of collection and
temporary storage of that solid waste prior to off-site disposal, or a
recovered material processing facility.
   SOLID WASTE SITE or FACILITY. Any place at which solid waste is managed,
stored, treated, processed, or disposed.
   SOLID WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid
waste during the interval between generation and collection. A SOLID WASTE
STORAGE CONTAINER may be made out of plastic, vinyl, or metal and range in size
from about ten gallons to 42-cubic yards in size. Containers may not become
brittle or breakable at cold temperatures.
   STORAGE. The temporary containment of wastes incident to transportation.
Solid waste may be stored for a reasonable time, but only in compliance with
environmental performance standards under 401 KAR 47:030, and may not cause a
nuisance. Storage of solid waste in excess of a reasonable time shall be
presumed to be open dumping of the waste. Waste may not be stored at transfer
facilities in excess of ten days without permission of the Judge/Executive or
his or her designee.
   TRANSFER. The placement of solid waste from smaller collection vehicles into
larger vehicles for transportation to intermediate or final disposal
facilities.
   TRANSFER FACILITY. Any transportation-related facility including loading
docks, compaction equipment, parking areas, and other similar facilities where
shipments of solid waste are temporarily held or transferred incident to
transportation.
   TRANSPORTATION. Any off-site movement of waste by any mode, and any loading,
unloading, storage, or management incidental thereto.
   YARD WASTES. Limbs (under six inches), shrubs (without root balls), brush,
Christmas trees, grass clippings, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, and similar
compostable materials.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.002 TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean, and
sanitary condition, and shall be constructed, maintained, and operated to
prevent spillage of solid waste. All such vehicles shall be constructed with
watertight compartments for carrying waste and with covers which shall be an
integral part of the vehicle or shall be constructed with a separate cover of
suitable material with fasteners designed to secure all sides of the cover to
the vehicle and which shall be secured whenever the vehicle is transporting
solid waste, or, as an alternate, the entire bodies thereof shall be enclosed
with only loading hoppers exposed. No solid waste shall be transported in the
loading hoppers. All vehicles hauling solid waste shall be cleaned as often as
necessary to prevent nuisance and insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 TRANSPORTATION ROUTES.
   The solid waste collector shall use only those public roads set out in its
application for permit and approved by the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.004 OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning of solid waste, hazardous waste, or bulky waste is prohibited.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 OPEN DUMPING.
   Dumping of solid waste, including bulky waste, on any lands, water, or air
(i.e., roadsides, hollows, rivers, streams, lakes, gullies, and the like) by
any person is prohibited. The creation or use of an open dump is prohibited.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 LANDFILL DUMPING.
   All residential waste and commercial waste generated in the county shall be
disposed at the county landfill or delivered to the county-owned county
transfer station in accordance with §
50.017.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 SOLID WASTE REUSED.
   If approved in advance by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee,
certain types of solid waste may be beneficially reused.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.008 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
    The Judge/Executive or his or her designee shall make, amend, revoke, and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations, governing, but not limited to:
   (A)   Schedules of, and routes for, collection and transportation of solid
waste;
   (B)   Processing facilities and fees for the use thereof;
   (C)   Disposal facilities and fees for the use thereof;
   (D)   Records of quantity and type of wastes received at processing and/or
disposal facilities;
   (E)   Handling of wastes such as sludges, ashes, agriculture, construction,
bulky items, tires, automobiles, oils, greases, and the like;
   (F)   Reporting requirements related to solid waste management in the
county; and
   (G)   Any other matter relating to solid waste management in the county as
directed by the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.009 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to:
   (A)   Dispose of solid waste by dumping the same on any premises in the
county other than a permitted solid waste disposal facility, with or without
the consent of the owner of the premises;
   (B)   Deposit solid waste in any other person’s solid waste container,
without the consent of the owner of such container, and/or with the intent of
avoiding payment of the service charge hereinafter provided for solid waste
collection and disposal;
   (C)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection, transportation
equipment, or disposal personnel in the lawful performance of their duties;
   (D)   Burn solid waste unless in an incinerator permitted by the Cabinet or
unless a variance has been obtained from the appropriate air pollution control
agency, except as provided in §
91.03;
   (E)   Place dead animals in any solid waste container;
   (F)   Engage in the business of collecting, recycling, processing, or
disposing of solid waste within the geographic boundaries of the county without
a permit from the county or continue to operate in the county after the permit
has been suspended, revoked, or canceled; and
   (G)   Violate any section of this chapter or any other rule or regulation
promulgated under the authority of §
50.008.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.010 PROHIBITION ON LITTERING.
   Littering is prohibited.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 VEHICLE PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All vehicles used in the transportation of solid waste that is generated in
the county shall comply with §
50.080.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.012 TRANSPORTATION WITHOUT PERMIT.
   Any vehicle used in the transportation of solid waste generated within the
county found on any public road without a valid permit shall be immediately
stopped. Said vehicle may not be moved until a valid permit is obtained or the
Judge/Executive or his or her designee directs the vehicle to be removed from
the public road.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.013 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   The owner or operator of any vehicle removed as provided in §
50.012 shall be required to pay all reasonable costs incurred by the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee for removing and storing said vehicle before
the Judge/Executive or his or her designee will issue a permit to the owner/
operator/applicant.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.014 ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION FEE.
   Any person delivering solid waste to the county transfer station or to the
county landfill, in addition to any other fees, shall pay an environmental
remediation fee of $1.75 per ton of waste delivered to the transfer station or
landfill. For loads weighing less than one ton, the fee shall be $1.75.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.015 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
    Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to affect, modify, amend, or repeal
any provision of any ordinance administered by the County Health Department or
other department, board, commission, or agency of the county or the
commonwealth.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.016 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court shall make available to the citizens of the
county as a part of its solid waste management system, transfer, and landfill
facilities which shall be used to dispose of solid waste. Each person
generating solid waste shall be responsible for paying a fee for this service
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   There is hereby created the County Solid Waste Management Fund. Said
Fund shall receive all revenues derived from the fee imposed herein, and shall
make expenditures only as authorized by KRS 109.056.
   (C)   There is hereby established a solid waste management fee.
      (1)   Said fee shall be in the amount of $3 and shall be due and payable
on a monthly basis.
      (2)   Each individual owner or tenant in possession of a residential,
industrial, or commercial unit from which solid waste may be generated shall be
responsible for paying the monthly $3 fee.
      (3)   The County Fiscal Court may collect the solid waste management fee
as provided in KRS 109.056(3).
   (D)   The effective date of the institution of the fee shall be July 1,
1995, and for the purposes of division (E) below, said fee shall expire
November 2001 and shall not extend beyond the November 15, 2001 billing cycle
for Kenergy and the November 30, 2001 billing cycle for Owensboro municipal
utilities.
   (E)   The solid waste management fee shall remain in full force and effect
until such time as determined by the County Fiscal Court. The revenues derived
from the use of the transfer and landfill facilities provide sufficient funds
for their operational, new construction, and debt service costs.
(Ord. KOC 830.3 (2001), passed 12-6-2001)
§ 50.017 FRANCHISES FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court shall provide universal municipal solid waste
collection within its jurisdiction through the grant of a nonexclusive
franchise.
   (B)   All franchise agreements entered into under this section shall require
the party providing municipal solid waste collection service to dispose of the
waste it collects at the county landfill or transfer station.
   (C)    Nonexclusive franchises shall be granted to all haulers that are
properly registered in accordance with KRS 224.43-315(3), and are in compliance
with all other applicable laws and regulations.
   (D)   No hauler shall be allowed to collect municipal solid waste in the
county unless granted a franchise by the County Fiscal Court.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE shall mean
household solid waste and commercial solid waste, as defined in KRS 224.1-010
(30).
   (F)   This section shall become effective July 1, 2004, or 60 days following
the issuance of a declaratory judgment upholding this section by the U.S.
District Court for the Western District of the commonwealth, whichever is
later.
(Ord. KOC 830.5 (2004), passed 2-19-2004)
§ 50.018 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
50.001 through
50.015,
50.030 through
50.037,
50.050 through
50.056,
50.070 through
50.081,
50.095 through
50.097,
50.110 through
50.112, and
50.999 shall become effective upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.030 STORAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The occupant or owner of every residential dwelling unit, agricultural,
commercial, or institutional or industrial establishment producing solid waste
within the county shall use the container or containers provided by the
collector for the storage of all solid waste and maintain such solid waste
containers in good repair at all times. Persons requiring the use of containers
for bulky or demolition or construction waste shall contact the collector. The
collector may charge an additional fee for the use of containers for bulky or
demolition or construction waste.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.031 SOLID WASTE TO BE STORED IN A MANNER PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE.
   The occupant or owner of every residential dwelling unit, agricultural,
commercial, business, institutional, or industrial establishment shall place
all solid waste to be collected in storage containers, and shall maintain such
containers and the area surrounding them in a clean, neat, and sanitary
condition at all times. Solid waste shall be stored in a manner that will
prevent insect and/or rodent infestation and will not create a fire, health, or
safety hazard or a public nuisance.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.032 STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   The weight of any individual storage containers together with its contents
shall not exceed 75 pounds. Disposable solid waste containers may also be used
for storage of residential solid waste, subject to approval by the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee. When such containers containing solid waste
are stored outside a dwelling or building, they must be stored in a manner that
will prevent insect and/or rodent infestation or disturbance by wild or
domestic animals.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, AND INDUSTRIAL
USE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   All persons who generate more than two cubic yards (i.e., approximately the
equivalent to 500 pounds or 400 gallons) of solid waste per week shall use
storage containers as may be approved by the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee for that purpose. The containers shall be waterproof and leakproof and
shall be covered or kept closed at all times except when depositing waste
therein or removing the contents thereof, and shall meet any additional
requirements imposed pursuant to §
50.008. No person may remove any item from a solid waste container, climb on or
into a container, or damage any container.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.034 AIR-TIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling, or any
other person, shall place or leave outside a dwelling or building any
abandoned, discarded, or unattended white good (i.e., icebox, refrigerator,
freezer or any other type of receptacle that has an air-tight or locking door),
without first permanently removing its doors.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.035 YARD WASTE.
   Loose yard waste (small trimmings, sticks, small shrubs, grass clippings,
and the like) shall be bagged, bundled, or placed in a separate container for
collection. Limbs smaller than six inches in diameter should be placed with
larger ends facing the street. Clean, natural, and undressed Christmas trees
may be collected. Root balls, lumber, cement, rocks, and dirt of any kind are
prohibited. Yard waste shall not be placed so as to impede any right-of-way for
an unreasonable amount of time. Yard waste shall not be placed on roads so as
to impede traffic flow nor interfere with the sight distance triangle.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 STORAGE CONTAINERS NOT IN COMPLIANCE.
   Any solid waste container which does not meet the minimum specifications or
requirements in this chapter or which is considered unsafe or unhealthy in the
reasonable discretion of the Judge/Executive or his or her designee may be
considered waste and may be collected together with its contents and disposed
of as solid waste without reimbursement to the owner or user thereof, to
protect the public health and welfare.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.037 MEDICAL WASTE.
   Contaminated needles and other contaminated sharp objects shall be placed in
medical waste containers that are puncture resistant, labeled or color-coded,
and leakproof. All containers holding medical waste for disposal shall meet all
federal, state, and local health and safety standards. All non-sharp wastes,
such as bandages, shall be placed in containers which are closable and
constructed to securely contain all contents and prevent leakage of fluids
during handling, storage, transport, or shipping. Containers of non-sharp
medical wastes shall be clearly labeled or color-coded in accordance with
federal, state, and local health and safety standards.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.050 COUNTY RESPONSIBILITY DEFINED.
   The county shall provide for the collection and disposal of solid waste as
follows.
   (A)   The county shall provide for the collection and disposal of solid
waste generated in the county. In addition to the method specified by §
50.017, the county may provide such service through permits or by contracting
with, a person, county, or city or a combination thereof, for the entire county
or portions thereof, as may be deemed in the best interest of the county. Every
person, entity, or commercial enterprise shall be expressly prohibited from
collecting, sorting, processing, transporting, and disposing of any solid waste
generated within the county except as specifically authorized herein.
   (B)   The county may, at its discretion and from time to time, provide other
solid waste management services.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.051 COLLECTION POINTS.
   The point of collection of solid waste shall be from the roadside or
curbside within public rights-of- way at the nearest public road to the
residence, commercial establishment, or industrial facility, or other location
as approved by the County Judge/Executive or his or her designee. Containers of
solid waste generated by residential or agricultural uses shall be placed along
the roadside or curbside of the nearest public road or that public street
fronting the subject property no more than 12 hours before a scheduled
collection. All reusable storage containers shall be removed from the roadside
or curbside within 12 hours after collection. Containers for bulky wastes or
construction or demolition waste shall, whenever reasonably feasible, be on
private property and in a location easily accessible to a collection vehicle.
Tree limbs and yard wastes shall be placed at the curb, roadside, or alley for
collection, where pickup service is provided.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 BULKY WASTE.
   Bulky waste shall be collected upon request to collectors permitted under
this chapter. The collector may charge an additional fee for the collection of
bulky waste.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.053 AUTHORITY FOR COLLECTORS TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Licensed commercial haulers are hereby authorized to enter upon private
property for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by
this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings for the purpose of collecting solid waste without the
approval of the owner of the building. Upon approval by the Judge/Executive or
his or her designee, commercial and industrial solid waste may be removed from
within individual commercial and industrial establishments.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.054 COLLECTION FREQUENCY.
   All solid waste, other than bulky waste, shall be collected on a regularly
scheduled basis. Collection shall be made between 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., or
as may be determined from time to time by the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.055 COLLECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES DEFINED.
   Solid waste collectors operating within the county shall be responsible for
the collection of solid waste from collection points and placing such waste in
a transportation vehicle, provided such waste is stored and disposed of in
compliance with provisions set forth in this chapter. Spillage or blowing
litter, caused as a result of the exercise of the duties of the solid waste
collector, shall immediately be collected and placed in the transportation
vehicle by the collector.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.056 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following wastes may not be deposited in solid waste containers or
receptacles:
   (A)   Hazardous waste, except household waste;
   (B)   Liquid wastes;
   (C)   Bulky wastes, major appliances, furniture;
   (D)   Tires;
   (E)   Construction and demolition wastes;
   (F)   Dead animals;
   (G)   Any burning or smoldering materials or any other materials which may
create a fire hazard;
   (H)   Batteries;
   (I)   PCB-containing, fluorescent light ballasts;
   (J)   Used motor oil;
   (K)   Used oil filters;
   (L)   Friable asbestos-containing material; and
   (M)   Any other solid waste, substance, or material that may be designated
by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee from time to time. The person
placing any such waste in a solid waste container or receptacle shall be solely
responsible for all costs associated with proper disposal of the waste and any
waste contaminated thereby.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
PERMITS
§ 50.070 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No commercial hauler or other person shall engage in the business of
collecting, disposing, recycling, processing, or managing of solid waste within
the county without a permit secured from the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee.
   (B)   A person engaged in the collection, disposal, recycling, processing,
or managing of solid waste, or any combination thereof, shall be required to
obtain only one permit hereunder.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.071 PERMITS BY RULE.
   (A)   Beneficial reuse. The beneficial reuse of solid waste is permitted by
rule, provided that any such beneficial reuse is:
      (1)   Approved in advance by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee;
      (2)   In compliance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations
governing such activities; and
      (3)   Does not create a nuisance or other condition that is potentially
harmful to human health or the environment (as determined by the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee). No beneficial reuse shall be allowed until
the prospective permittee notifies the Judge/Executive or his or her designee
of the location, the purpose, and the type and amount of waste to be so used,
and the Judge/Executive or his or her designee has approved such activity.
   (B)   Transportation. A commercial hauler whose sole activity is the
transport of solid waste generated outside of county shall be deemed to have a
permit under this chapter but shall be subject to all other provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, the transportation requirements of §§
50.002 and
50.003.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.072 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit shall be issued to a commercial hauler until and unless the
applicant therefor, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file
and maintain with the Judge/Executive or his or her designee evidence of
liability insurance and motorist coverage in amounts required by applicable
state or federal law or regulation.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.073 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application required under this chapter shall be on a form
specified by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee.
   (B)   Each applicant for any such permit shall state in his or her
application the following:
      (1)   The nature of the permit desired, whether:
         (a)   To collect;
         (b)   To process; or
         (c)   To transport solid waste or any combination thereof.
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other
entity, with disclosure of the ownership interests;
      (3)   The number of employees and solid waste vehicles to be operated
thereunder, together with a description showing that each such vehicle meets
the requirements of this chapter;
      (4)   The location or locations of solid waste disposal facilities or
solid waste processing facilities to be used, including the facility name,
permit number, anticipated volume, and types of solid waste to be disposed or
processed; and
      (5)    A certification. The application shall include a certification as
follows.
 
I hereby certify that all of the information contained in this application is
true and accurate. I understand that penalties for violation of this permit may
include fines of $25 to $100 per day, per occurrence, and injunctive relief.
 
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.074 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The permittee shall allow the Judge/Executive or his or her designee to
inspect any and all facilities, equipment, and vehicles to be operated pursuant
to this chapter to ensure that information contained in the application is
accurate. If the application shows that the applicant will collect, transport,
dispose of, or process solid waste without hazard to the public health or
damage to the environment and is in conformity with the laws of the
commonwealth and this chapter, the Judge/Executive or his or her designee shall
issue the permit authorized by this chapter, and each applicant shall pay an
application fee of $10. If modifications can be made to a rejected application
regarding service, equipment or mode of operation to bring the application
within the requirements of this chapter, the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee shall so notify the applicant in writing setting forth the
modification to be made and the time in which it must be done.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.075 APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If the applicant does not make the modifications pursuant to the notice in §
50.074 within the time limit specified therein or if the application does not
clearly show that the collection, processing, or transportation of solid waste
will not create a public health hazard or be without harmful effects on the
environment, the application shall be denied and the applicant notified by the
Judge/Executive or his or her designee, in writing, stating the reason for such
denial. Nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of the applicant to
reapply after the rejection of his or her application provided that all aspects
of the reapplication comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.076 ANNUAL FEE.
   The permit may be renewed upon payment of the fee required herein if the
service covered by the permit has not been modified, the transportation
vehicles meet the requirements of §§
50.002 and
50.003, and the renewal is approved by the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee. If modifications have been made, the applicant shall reapply for a
permit as set forth in §§
50.073 and
50.074. No permits authorized by this chapter shall be transferable from
company to company or person to person.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.077 INSPECTION.
   In order to ensure compliance with the laws of the commonwealth, this
chapter, and the rules and regulations authorized hereunder, the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee is authorized to inspect all phases of solid
waste management within the county. No inspection shall be made in any
residential unit unless authorized by the occupant or by due process of law.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.078 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   When a permittee has not taken corrective measures within the time
specified, the Judge/Executive or his or her designee shall suspend or revoke
the permit or permits involved in the violations. Where an extension of time
will permit correction and no public health hazard is created by the delay, one
extension of time not to exceed the original specified correction time period
may be given by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.079 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If a permit is revoked and the person continues to operate without a valid
permit, or if anyone violates this chapter or any regulation issued hereunder,
the Judge/Executive or his or her designee may, in addition to other actions
authorized herein, seek injunctive or other relief in an appropriate court.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.080 PERMIT RELIEF.
   All motor vehicles operating under any permit required by this chapter shall
display the number or numbers on each side in colors that contrast with that of
the vehicle, such numbers to be clearly legible, and not less than two inches
high. A copy of said permit shall be maintained in the vehicle. Each permit for
processing or disposal facilities shall be prominently displayed at the
facility.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.081 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions shall apply to each permit issued under this
chapter.
   (A)   Duty to comply. The permittee shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter and the permit.
   (B)   Registration. The permittee shall register annually with the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee, on a form specified by the Judge/Executive or
his or her designee, and shall report to the Judge/Executive or his or her
designee the number of households, businesses, or industries from which the
permittee was collecting solid waste as of October 1 of the previous year, the
amount of solid waste collected for disposal during the previous calendar year,
and the amount of solid waste collected for purposes of recycling. The
permittee shall also report to the Judge/Executive or his or her designee the
sites to which solid waste was delivered for disposal, and the amount of solid
waste delivered to each site. Reports shall be submitted to the Solid Waste
Coordinator by February 1 of each year. Failure to timely submit a report
required under this division (B) may result in suspension of the permit.
   (C)   Term. The permit shall be valid for a term of one year from its
effective date.
   (D)   Inspection. The permittee shall allow inspection of its facilities and
equipment by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee at any time, including
any vehicle operated by the permittee for purposes of collection.
   (E)   No property rights. The permit granted by this section does not
constitute the grant of any property right to the permittee, and the permit may
not be assigned or transferred without the written consent of the county.
   (F)   Monitoring. The permittee shall take necessary precautions to ensure
that wastes prohibited under §
50.056 are not delivered to any transfer station nor to the county landfill for
purposes of disposal.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
PUBLIC NUISANCES RELATED TO WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.095 NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Judge/Executive or his or her designee to serve
or cause to be served upon the owner and occupant of any property on which
there is kept or maintained any nuisance in violation of the provisions of this
chapter a notice describing the nuisance and demanding the abatement of the
nuisance within ten days from the date of such service.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.096 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the
Judge/Executive or his or her designee or Solid Waste Coordinator may seek a
court order of abatement or other relief in a court of competent jurisdiction
or the Judge/Executive or his or her designee may also, with County Fiscal
Court approval, abate such nuisance, keeping account of the expense of the
abatement. Such expense of abatement shall be charged and paid by the owner of
record of the property.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.097 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   When the county cleans up or removes a nuisance or an open dump to
ensure protection of the public health, welfare, and safety, the Judge/
Executive or his or her designee shall require the owner of the property on
which the nuisance or open dump was located to reimburse the county for all
costs incurred. Recoverable costs include, but are not limited to, costs for
site assessment and evaluation, labor, equipment, disposal, and legal fees. The
Judge/Executive or his or her designee shall seek reimbursement of all funds
expended to clean up the site.
   (B)   Whenever a bill for such assessed charges remains unpaid for 30 days
after written notice thereof has been given to the owner of the property on
which the nuisance was abated, the Judge/Executive or his or her designee may
file a statement of lien claim against the property. In the event that the
Judge/Executive or his or her designee elects to place a lien on the property
to secure the payment of the assessed cost of abating the nuisance, written
notice shall first be given to the legal owner or owners of said property
stating the amount of the funds spent on the cleanup, the address of the
property, and the intention of the county to assert a lien against said
property to secure reimbursement of said charges. Said written notice shall be
sent by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, or
personally served by the County Sheriff or a deputy thereof.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.110 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In any instance where an inspection reveals a violation of this chapter or a
regulation promulgated thereunder, the Judge/Executive or his or her designee
or Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue a written notice of violation for each
such violation. The notice of violation shall explain the alleged violation or
violations found and the corrective measures required to be taken, together
with the time period by which such corrective measures shall be completed, and
the potential penalty for any such violation.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.111 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If any person violates this chapter or any regulation or permit issued
hereunder, the Judge/Executive or his or her designee may seek temporary or
permanent injunctive relief or any other administrative, equitable, or judicial
relief. The Judge/Executive or his or her designee may suspend service to any
person for violating this chapter if such violation presents a substantial risk
of harm to public health, welfare, or safety, or if the person fails to
substantially complete the recommended corrective measures within the time
period mandated by the notice of violation.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.112 APPEAL.
   Any person who may be aggrieved by any notice of violation issued or other
action taken by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee, or Solid Waste
Coordinator, under §§
50.110 and
50.111, may within 30 days of the issuance of a notice of violation or other
such action taken by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee or Solid Waste
Coordinator, appeal directly to the County Fiscal Court. Said appeal shall be
in writing and set out the specific grounds and reasons of the appeal. A right
to appeal shall expire 30 days after the date of issuance of a notice of
violation or the date of such other action taken by the Judge/Executive or his
or her designee or Solid Waste Coordinator being complained of.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the remedies specified under §
50.111, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any
lawful rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, or any permit issued
pursuant thereto, upon conviction in the County District Court, shall be
punished by a civil penalty of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, provided
that each day’s violation thereof shall be a separate offense. Additionally,
any person violating §
50.005 shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $20 per ton of solid waste
disposed in the commonwealth. Citations against those persons maintaining or
causing a nuisance may be issued by the Judge/Executive or his or her designee,
the Solid Waste Coordinator, the County Sheriff, or any other police officer
authorized to serve warrants in the county. The penalties hereunder shall not
be in conflict with nor shall they supersede the penalties provided in any
other ordinance of the county.
      (2)   Littering shall subject the offender to the penalties of §§
50.110 through
50.112 and division (B)(1) above, or any other applicable civil or criminal
provision of state or local law. The Judge/Executive or his or her designee,
the County Sheriff, or Solid Waste Coordinator may issue citations to any
person violating the prohibition on littering.
(Ord. KOC 830.6 (08), passed 2-26-2008)
CHAPTER 51: STORMWATER
Section
   
51.01   Purpose and scope
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Permit procedures and requirements
   
51.04   Illicit discharge detection and elimination
   
51.05   Construction site stormwater runoff control
   
51.06   Post-construction stormwater management in new development and
redevelopment
   
51.07   Enforcement
   
51.08   Notification
   
51.09   Liability
   
51.10   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The county establishes this chapter in order to establish a set of
water quality and quantity parameters applicable to all surface waters to
provide reasonable guidance for the regulation of stormwater runoff in all
public and private developments. These parameters are being established for the
purpose of protecting local water resources from degradation and to protect and
maintain the native vegetation in riparian stream and wetland areas.
   (B)   This chapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following
objectives:
      (1)   To protect the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens,
property owners, and businesses in the county;
      (2)   To protect and enhance the municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4), community waters, and waters of the commonwealth by inhibiting the
deterioration of water resources resulting from development;
      (3)   To maintain after development, as nearly as possible, the pre-
development runoff characteristics, and to reduce stream channel erosion,
pollution, siltation, and sedimentation, and local flooding; and
      (4)   To provide long-term responsibility for and maintenance of
stormwater best management practices.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a stormwater management permit.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants to waters of the commonwealth. BMPs also
include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   BUFFER. A vegetated area, including trees, shrubs, and herbaceous
vegetation, which exists or is established to protect a stream system, lake,
reservoir, or coastal estuarine area. Alteration of this natural area is
strictly limited.
   CSS. The combined sewer system, or the sewer system that carries a mixture
of stormwater and sanitary sewage during and immediately after rain events.
   DAVIESS COUNTY. The county department designated to enforce this chapter, as
determined by the Director of Public Works (County Engineer) or his or her
designee.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater management
practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing
gravity settling of pollutants.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in the development or
redevelopment of property.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of property for any purpose involving buildings;
      (2)   Subdivision, or the division of a tract or parcel of land in two or
more parcels;
      (3)   The combination of any two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of
property for any purpose; and
      (4)   The preparation of land for any of the above purposes.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee
allowing the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL (EPSC). The prevention of soil
erosion and control of solid material during land disturbing activity to
prevent its transport out of the disturbed area by means of air, water,
gravity, or ice.
   FEE IN LIEU. A payment of money in place of meeting all or part of the
stormwater performance standards required by this chapter.
   HIGH QUALITY WATERS or HQW. Those waters of the commonwealth that have been
categorized by the Kentucky Division of Water as high quality pursuant to the
requirements of 401 KAR 10:030, § 1(3).
   HOTSPOT. An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
stormwater.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS TO MS4. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. The act of depositing pollutants into the MS4 and/or the
CSS.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall
(e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, and the like).
   INFILTRATION. The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil.
   KEPSC. The Commonwealth Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control Program,
which is a group consisting of the MS4 communities throughout the commonwealth,
created to establish equity throughout the state in the training and
qualification of inspectors and plan preparers.
   KPDES. The Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any activity which changes the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or human-made watercourse.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including those holding
the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. An agreement that provides for long-term maintenance
of stormwater management practices.
   MCM. A minimum control measure, which is the least action required to obtain
the goals as set forth in the KPDES permit.
   MS4. The municipal separate storm sewer system, or the conveyance system
that carries only stormwater, and not sanitary sewage.
   NOD. A notice of deficiency, which will be defined as the written notice
given to a person or entity by the county upon the first violation of this
chapter. The violator of this chapter shall be given a set time period to make
corrective actions to repair the system.
   NOI. The notice of intent of a construction project, as defined in the KPDES
permit.
   NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal, and urban runoff sources.
   NOT. The notice of termination of a construction project, as defined in the
KPDES permit.
   NOV. A notice of violation, which will be defined as the subsequent written
notices, after the NOD given to a person or entity by the county after repeated
violations of this chapter have occurred. The violator of this chapter shall be
given a reasonable time period to make corrective actions to repair the system
prior to stop-work orders, fines, and/or mandated incarceration.
   OFF-SITE FACILITY. A stormwater management measure located outside the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   ON-SITE FACILITY. A stormwater management measure located within the subject
property boundary described in the permit application for land development
activity.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or any firm, proprietorship, association,
corporation, or other public or private organization.
   POLLUTANTS. Paint, oil, or any petroleum-based substances, toxic chemicals,
or hazardous materials and substances, solid or human waste, untreated sewage,
or any substance, the exposure to which is deemed harmful to humans, animals,
or the environment under federal or state law.
   PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT/REDEVELOPMENT. Developments that are not the
responsibility of the state or local municipality to provide maintenance on,
including storm sewers, stormwater facilities, and roads.
   PRIVATE STORM SEWER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any manhole, drainage inlet, catch
basin, ditch, creek, stream, water course, drainage conduit, sewer, pond, lake,
drainage way, retention basin, or topographical configuration which acts to
channel the course of stormwater flow across privately- owned property; or any
combination of the above, or all other natural or human-made outlets which
empty into any of the above which carry stormwater and surface water and
drainage but does not fall within a dedicated and/or platted right-of-way,
drainage easement, or utility easement. These systems are not to be maintained
by the county.
   PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT/REDEVELOPMENT. Developments that are the responsibility
of the state or local municipality to provide maintenance on including storm
sewers, stormwater facilities, and roads.
   PUBLIC STORM SEWER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any approved and dedicated manhole,
drainage inlet, public right-of-way, including curb and gutter, catch basin,
ditch, creek, stream, water course, drainage conduit, sewer, pond, lake,
drainage easement, retention basin, or topographical configuration which acts
to channel the course of stormwater flow across publicly- or privately-owned
property; or any combination of the above, or all other approved and dedicated
natural or human-made outlets which empty into any of the above drainage system
which carry stormwater, surface water, and drainage which fall within a
dedicated right-to-way, drainage easement, or utility easement. The county
shall maintain these facilities according to state law and County Fiscal Court
policy.
   QUALIFIED INSPECTOR. An individual who has successfully completed the KEPSC
qualified inspector training program and has scored a passing grade on the
exam; or has obtained a similar qualification from a similar accredited program
on the state or national level. Other professional registrations or licenses
shall not be substituted for this qualification.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any construction, alteration, or improvement involving land
disturbance performed in areas where existing land use is high density
commercial, industrial, institutional, or multi-family residential. Sites in
which land has been cleared and laid fallow for over three years shall not be
considered REDEVELOPMENT and are subject to new development standards.
   RUNOFF. Rainfall, snowmelt, or irrigation water flowing over the ground
surface.
   SEDIMENT. Soils or other surficial materials transported or deposited by the
action of wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
   STOP-WORK ORDER. A written notice given to any violator of this chapter
requiring the violator to immediately cease and desist any and all activity on
the site the violation occurred, other than any work required to correct and
repair the damaged system. No other work can be performed on the site until the
STOP-WORK ORDER is rescinded.
   STORMWATER. Stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, and surface runoff and
drainage.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The use of structural or non-structural practices
that are designed to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates, and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A site-specific document
required for submission of the KPDES notice of intent (NOT) and this chapter.
The SWPPP is utilized during construction and for post-construction conditions
to identify potential sources of pollution, describe practices to reduce
pollutants in stormwater discharges, and identify implementation procedures to
maintain compliance with the current general permit.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT PRACTICES (STPS). Measures, either structural or non-
structural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or nonpoint source pollution inputs to
stormwater runoff and water bodies.
   WATER POLLUTION. The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical,
biological, or radioactive properties of the waters of the commonwealth in such
a manner, condition, or quantity that will be detrimental to the public health
or welfare, to animal or aquatic life or marine life, to the use of such waters
as present or future sources of public water supply, or to the use of such
waters for recreational, commercial, industrial, agricultural, or other
legitimate purposes.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, leaves, limbs, plants, bushes, flowers, or
shrubs.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.03 PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any landowner or operator desiring a permit for land disturbance activity
shall submit to the County Engineer a completed excavation, cut or fill permit
application.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.04 ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or permit, authorize, allow, or
direct another person to do, or fail to do when required, any of the following:
   (A)   Deposit any concrete, steel, pollutants, building materials, or yard
waste of any kind in the guttered curb of any street or alley located within
public right-of-way that drain into the MS4 or CSS;
   (B)   Deposit any solid waste, debris, yard waste, pollutants, wastewater
(sewage), concrete, building materials, tires, appliances, animal carcasses, or
any other substance, material, or obstruction of any kind in an open ditch,
sewer, or stormwater inlet and catch basin, or manhole, that is maintained by
the county; or
   (C)   Connect to the public storm sewer drainage system with any illicit
connection.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner/contractor/developer) to do, or
permit, authorize, allow, or direct another person to do, or fail to do when
required, any of the following:
   (A)   Store any building material or construction equipment in any proposed
or platted public right-of-way;
   (B)   If required for the project, construct on any lot in the county prior
to obtaining an excavation, cut or fill permit. In the review of the
excavation, cut or fill permit application, the County Engineer, or his or her
designee, shall determine if a NOI/SWPPP is required by the owner/contractor/
developer. If required, the NOI shall be submitted to the State Division of
Water (DOW), and a copy of the NOI/SWPPP shall be delivered to the County
Engineer’s office prior to the start of construction. The amount of time
between the submittal of the NOI to the DOW and the allowable start of
construction shall be as determined in the current KPDES permit. The erosion
control procedures employed in the field shall be those necessary to prevent
pollution as specified in the current KPDES permit and the state erosion
prevention and sediment control field guide and the state best management
practices (BMPs) for controlling erosion, sediment, and pollutant runoff from
construction sites, and shall be maintained and updated as needed. The SWPPP
shall be updated as often as necessary in order to accurately portray the
erosion control systems in the field at all times. A copy of the NOI/SWPPP
shall be kept on the job site and shall be made available to the County
Engineer’s staff at all times. The NOT shall be submitted to the DOW upon
completion of the construction project and final stabilization of the soil has
taken place and is functional based on an on-site project closeout meeting with
the County Engineer’s staff. A copy of the NOT shall also be submitted to the
County Engineer’s office;
   (C)   If the NOI/SWPPP/NOT is deemed required by the County Engineer, it
shall be unlawful to operate a construction site without employing a qualified
inspector to inspect the entire site and maintain all inspection records as
required by the current KPDES permit. All inspection reports shall be kept on
site and shall be made available to the County Engineer or his or her
representative at all times;
   (D)   If any construction does not require the NOI/SWPPP/NOT, it shall be
unlawful to fail to maintain all erosion control devices as per the Public
Improvement Specifications. These erosion control devices shall include, but
are not limited to, rock runouts, sediment transport control devices, and all
other best management practices as appropriate for the site conditions; or
   (E)   The owner of the property is subject to all the enforcement remedies
available to the county in §
51.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT IN NEW DEVELOPMENT AND
REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Requirements for stormwater management plan approval.
      (1)   No application for development will be approved unless it includes
a stormwater management plan detailing in concept how runoff and associated
water quality impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or
managed in the post-developed condition in compliance with the established
water quality standard. This plan must indicate whether stormwater will be
managed on-site or off-site and, if on-site, the general location and type of
practices.
      (2)   The stormwater management plan(s) must be signed by a licensed
professional engineer (PE), who will verify that the design of all stormwater
management practices meet the current requirements of the OMPC Public
Improvement Specifications and Subdivision Regulations for Owensboro/Daviess
Counties, as applicable. No excavation, cut or fill permit shall be issued
until a satisfactory final stormwater management plan, or a waiver, has been
reviewed and approved by the county after determining that the plan or waiver
is consistent with the requirements of this chapter and the OMPC Public
Improvement Specifications.
   (B)   Maintenance agreements.
      (1)   If the County Engineer approves a private storm sewer system as
part of a site or development plan, then the owner(s) of the private storm
sewer system shall maintain the private storm sewer system at the original
design service level. Failure to maintain the private storm sewer system at the
original designed service level shall constitute a public nuisance as defined
in §
51.07.
      (2)   If a private storm sewer system, which includes, but is not limited
to the conveyance system, detention/retention basins, and water quality BMPs,
and is located on private property, the owner of the property shall employ a
qualified licensed professional engineer to certify that the owner maintains
the storm sewer system at the original design level of service when the County
Engineer requests certification in writing.
      (3)   If the private owner’s engineer determines that the owner’s
maintenance of the private storm sewer systems does not meet the original
design level of service, the County Engineer shall issue
a notice of deficiency to the owner. The owner shall correct the deficiency
within the time determined by the County Engineer.
      (4)   The owner of the private storm sewer system is subject to all the
enforcement remedies available to the county in §§
51.07 and
51.99.
   (C)   Utilization of BMP resources. The county has furnished specifications
and standards for the proper implementation of the requirements for this
chapter in the form of the OMPC Public Improvement Specifications, Chapter 14.
Division (D) of this section shall apply to property located with the Phase II
permit boundary, as may change from time to time. This chapter includes a list
of acceptable stormwater treatment practices, including the specific selection
and design criteria, and operation and maintenance requirements for each
stormwater practice. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed and
constructed in accordance with these selection, design, and sizing criteria
will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality performance standards.
Alternative practices may be proposed and submitted for review, but must be
approved by the county. Additional resources include EPA’s National Menu of
Stormwater Best Management Practices (http://cfpub.epa.gov/npdes/stormwater/
menuofbmps/).
   (D)   Depositing of material in public systems. It shall be unlawful for any
person to do, or permit, authorize, or direct another person to do, or fail to
do when required, any of the following:
      (1)   Erect, construct, deposit, or plant, any building, outbuilding,
shed, fence, playground equipment, concrete, landscape berm, trees, bushes,
shrubs, flowers, rocks, dirt, or any other substance or structure that covers,
alters, obstructs, impairs, or encroaches on a public storm sewer drainage
system;
      (2)   Cover, alter, excavate, fill, obstruct, encroach on, or deposit any
concrete, steel, pollutants, building materials, yard waste, or construct ramps
of any kind in the guttered curb of any street or alley located within a county
maintained right-of-way; or
      (3)   Cover, alter, excavate, fill, divert, obstruct, impair, encroach
on, or deposit any solid waste, debris, yard waste, pollutants, wastewater
(sewage), concrete, building materials, tires, appliances, animal carcasses, or
any other substance, material, or obstruction of any kind in an open ditch,
sewer, or stormwater inlet and catch basin, manhole, right-of-way curb, and
gutter, or over, under, or across any public storm sewer drainage system.
   (E)   Grading/regrading private property. It shall be unlawful for any
person to do, or permit, authorize, or direct another person to grade or
regrade any private property in such manner as to obstruct, divert, or impede
the natural flow of surface stormwater across said person’s property or
adjoining properties.
   (F)   Construction of private storm sewer systems. All private storm sewer
systems shall be in place, functioning, and certified by a licensed
professional engineer prior to the occupation of any property improvements by
the owner. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to construct any part
of a private storm sewer system that has not been approved in advance by the
County Engineer on any development or site plan.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The acts, omissions, and conditions prohibited in §§
51.04 and
51.06 are declared to be public nuisances that are inimical to the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county.
   (B)   Responsibility of property owner to remove or abate public nuisance.
The owner(s) of property shall be responsible for the removal or abatement, at
the property owner’s sole expense, of any obstruction, impediment, or
encroachment under, over, or across any public stormwater drainage system on
the owner’s property, that is prohibited in §§
51.04 and
51.06 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the County Engineer, as soon as
the Engineering Department ascertains the existence of an unlawful obstruction
or encroachment on any public storm sewer drainage system, to forthwith notify
in person, or in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested as stated
below, the record owner of the property on which the public storm sewer
drainage system is located, and/or the holder of the NOI, to remove or abate
the unlawful condition, obstruction, or encroachment within the time specified
in the written notice, except in the case of an emergency approved and declared
by the County Engineer, in which case the notice given shall be that notice
which is reasonable and necessary under the circumstances. Failure of the owner
of the property to actually receive the notice required shall in no way
invalidate the provisions of this chapter or affect the liability of such owner
for the cost of removing or abating the public nuisance found to exist on the
owner’s property.
   (C)   County may abate nuisance; notice of abatement and assessment; lien.
If the property owner fails to remove or abate the nuisance in the manner and
according to the specifications directed by the County Engineer, within the
time permitted, the county may proceed to remove or abate the public nuisance.
A record of the entire cost associated, including labor and materials, shall be
transmitted to the County Engineer who shall, upon approval, assess the cost of
the removal or abatement of the public nuisance against the owner(s) of the
property improved, by sending the property owner a written notice of abatement
and assessment directing said property owner(s) to reimburse the county in full
for the cost of abatement, within 30 days of receipt. If the property owner or
owners fail to comply with the notice of abatement and assessment and does not
indemnify the county for the cost of removing or abating the public nuisance
within the prescribed time period, the county shall have a lien against the
property improved for the reasonable value of labor and materials utilized to
abate the public nuisance. The lien shall be as follows:
      (1)   The county shall have a lien against any property or properties
finally determined by the County Engineer to be in violation of this chapter to
secure the payment and recovery of the reasonable value of labor and materials
used to abate the violation, including fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or
fees, including administrative fees. The lien shall be superior to and have
priority over, all other subsequent liens on the property except state, county,
school board, county taxes, and nuisance abatement liens lawfully imposed under
KRS 72.720.
      (2)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (C)(1) above, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally liable for the
amount of all fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or fees, including
administrative fees assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees
incurred by the county in connection with the enforcement of this chapter. The
county may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (D)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a notice of deficiency, to sell,
transfer, mortgage, lease, or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or
structure to another until the requirements listed in the notice of violation
have been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of any notice of violation issued
by the County Engineer and shall furnish to the County Engineer a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the necessary corrections and
repairs required by such notice of violation.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.08 NOTIFICATION.
   All notification shall be served in person to the owner(s) of the property
according to the records in the office of the property valuation administrator,
or in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (A)   Notice of deficiency (NOD). The County Engineer’s Office shall have
authority to inspect any site that it deems to be in violation of this chapter.
If any site violates any portion of this chapter, a written NOD shall be
delivered to the violator. The violator shall be given seven-calendar days, or
as directed by the County Engineer or his or her designee, to correct the
deficiency per the details as specified in the NOD.
   (B)   Notice of violation level I (NOV I). The County Engineer’s Office
shall issue a NOV I to either the holder of the NOI or the owner(s) of any site
that has been previously cited, does not comply with the terms of the NOD
within the time period specified, or violates the provisions of this chapter to
an extent the public health and safety is at risk. The violator shall be given
three-calendar days, or as directed by the County Engineer or his or her
designee, to correct the deficiency per the details as specified in the NOV I.
   (C)   Notice of violation level II (NOV II); stop-work order. The County
Engineer’s Office shall issue a NOV II to either the holder of the NOI or the
owner(s) of any site that has been previously cited, does not comply with the
terms of the NOV I within the time period specified, or violates the provisions
of this chapter to an extent the public health and safety is at risk. The
violator shall be given a stop-work order. At this point, the violator shall
not work on any item on the site other than to take actions necessary to
correct the violation. The violator shall be given seven-calendar days, or as
directed by the County Engineer or his or her designee, to correct the
deficiency per the details as specified in the NOV II. The violator shall have
the right to appeal the NOV II to the Director of Public Works. An appeal shall
be made in writing within three days of receipt of the NOV II. If the
corrective actions are taken, then the stop-work order shall be rescinded, and
work can continue on the site.
   (D)   Notice of violation level III (NOV III). The County Engineer’s Office
shall issue a NOV III to either the holder of the NOI or the owner(s) of any
site that has been previously cited, does not comply with the terms of the NOV
II within the time period specified, or violates the provisions of this chapter
to an extent the public health and safety is at risk. The violator shall be
penalized as specified in §
51.99. The violator shall have the right to appeal the NOV III to the Director
of Public Works. An appeal shall be made in writing within three days of
receipt of the NOV III.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who takes responsibility for any land development shall
ensure that soil erosion, sedimentation, increased pollutant loads, and changes
in water flow characteristics resulting from the activity are controlled so as
to minimize pollution of receiving waters. The requirements of this chapter are
minimum standards and a person’s compliance with the same shall not relieve
such person from the duty of enacting all measures necessary to minimize
pollution of receiving waters.
   (B)   By approving a plan under this chapter, the county does not accept
responsibility for the design, installation, and operation and maintenance of
stormwater BMPs.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. The owner or holder of any property found to be in
violation of any section of this chapter, and upon issuance and receipt of the
NOV III, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 12 months, or both. Each day (24-hour period) on which a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense under this
chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalty. As an alternative to, or in conjunction with the
penalty set forth herein, any person found to be in violation of this chapter,
and upon receipt of the NOV III, may also be assessed a civil penalty not to
exceed $1,000, payable to the county, within 20 days of the issuance of the
citation. Civil penalties not paid within the time prescribed herein may be
recovered by the county in a civil action, in the same manner provided for the
collection of a civil debt.
   (C)   Legal and equitable remedies. In addition to the penalties prescribed
herein, the county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at law or
equity, including mandatory injunctive relief, to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, and/or to correct violations thereof. The conviction and
punishment of any person hereunder shall not relieve said person of the
responsibility to abate or correct prohibited nuisances, encroachments, or
conditions, or to remove prohibited obstructions, structures, impediments,
improvements, or any other material or object from any public storm sewer
system, nor prevent the enforcement, correction, or removal.
(Ord. KOC 630.1 (2013), passed 11-7-2013; Ord. KOC 630.1 (2015), passed 7-2-
2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Equipment of emergency vehicles in the county
   
70.02   [Reserved]
   
70.03   Exempting County Sheriff’s Department from placing insignia on certain
county-owned vehicles
   
70.04   Maximum weight restrictions on county roads generally
   
70.05   County road, street, and bridge system adopted by reference
   
70.06   Speed limits on county roads
   
70.07   Golf carts
   
Appendix A: Excess Weight Permit and Surety Bond
§ 70.01 EQUIPMENT OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES IN THE COUNTY.
   (A)   (1)   The County Sheriff, Daviess County Public Schools Police
Department, and the Owensboro City Police are authorized and directed to equip
their emergency vehicles with a combination of red and blue flashing, rotating,
or oscillating lights.
      (2)   This division (A) becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
   (B)   (1)   The County Jailer and Chief Deputy Jailer may equip their
county-owned emergency vehicle(s) with one or more flashing, rotating, or
oscillating blue lights, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (B) becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
   (C)   (1)   The Coroner and Deputy Coroners made written requests to the
County Fiscal Court pursuant to KRS 189.920(11) and (12), and the Fiscal Court
agrees that the County Coroner and Deputy Coroners may equip their publicly- or
privately-owned motor vehicle, or both, with flashing, rotating, or oscillating
red and blue lights and a siren meeting the requirements of this section solely
for purpose of responding to a report of the death of a human being. KRS
189.940 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Coroner and any Deputy Coroner
shall not exceed the posted speed limit when responding under authority of this
provision.
      (2)   This section shall expire upon the Coroner leaving office or if the
County Fiscal Court revokes the authorization.
      (3)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 560.1 (2009), passed 12-3-2009; Ord. KOC 560.2 (2011), passed 7-21-
2011; Ord. KOC 560.3 (2015), passed 2-16-2015; Ord. KOC 560.4 (2023), passed 4-
20-2023)
§ 70.02 [RESERVED.]
§ 70.03 EXEMPTING COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT FROM PLACING INSIGNIA ON CERTAIN
COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court does hereby authorize the County Sheriff to
designate certain vehicles owned by the county and used by the Sheriff’s
Department for investigative purposes.
   (B)   The Sheriff shall deliver in writing to the County Judge/Executive the
license number, make, and model of all vehicles used by the Sheriff’s
Department for investigative work and said vehicles so identified shall be
exempt from placing insignias on the sides of said vehicles, pursuant to KRS
186.067(6). Said list of exempt vehicles shall be attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
   (C)   The Sheriff may, from time to time, add or delete vehicles used for
investigative purposes and, whenever a change occurs, he or she shall file in
writing said changes with the County Judge/Executive.
   (D)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 510.1, passed 4-27-1982)
§ 70.04 MAXIMUM WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON COUNTY ROADS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Policy. The Fiscal Court, after conducting a public hearing on April
17, 1978, has determined that there is a legitimate need to further regulate
the use of county roads which are sought to be used daily and repeatedly by
individuals desiring to operate vehicles having a total gross weight in excess
of the posted weight allowed for such roads. Such use of county roads, however,
can and does damage the roads so used; otherwise, weight limitations for county
roads would not be a proper matter for Fiscal Court regulation. Therefore, an
excess weight permit should be made available to individuals desiring the same,
if they will undertake to bear the responsibility for road repair for such
designated county roads.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED COUNTY ROAD. Specifically-described portions of roads or
bridges within the county road system for which an excess weight permit has
been issued allowing the applicant to operate vehicles weighing in excess of
the posted weight limit over said road.
      INDIVIDUAL. A person, partnership, corporation, or authorized agent of a
person, partnership, or corporation.
      ROAD PATCH CONTRACTOR. The Fiscal Court, whenever it deems necessary, may
publicly request bids for road repair work. The party submitting the best bid
shall be known as the ROAD PATCH CONTRACTOR who, during the term of his or her
contract with the county, shall be responsible for repairing damaged county
roads when requested to do the same by the County Engineer.
   (C)   General powers and duties of the County Engineer regarding excess
weight permits.
      (1)   An applicant for an excess weight permit shall file his or her
application with the County Engineer who shall have the exclusive authority to
issue the excess weight permit. The County Engineer shall issue an excess
weight permit only after he or she has examined the application and has
satisfied himself or herself that the applicant has complied with all the
requirements set forth in the application.
      (2)   (a)   The County Engineer shall, as necessary, determine road
damage to designated county roads and shall notify the individual or
individuals having an excess weight permit for that portion of a designated
county road so damaged to cause repairs to be made within 24 hours after
receiving said notice. If said damaged portion of a designated county road is
not repaired within the time period allowed, then the County Engineer shall
cause the damaged portion of the designated county road to be repaired by
either of the following methods:
            1.   The County Engineer may direct the county road crew to make
the necessary repairs; or
            2.   The County Engineer may direct the road patch contractor to
make the necessary repairs.
         (b)   If the repair work is done at the direction of the County
Engineer, the Engineer shall determine the costs incurred and shall forward a
statement of costs to the County Treasurer.
      (3)   The County Engineer, at any time during the effective period of an
excess weight permit, may require the individual to whom said permit has been
issued to pay additional sums of money to the County Treasurer to maintain the
damage deposit in the amount set out in the application.
   (D)   Excess weight permit; requirements and use.
      (1)   An excess weight permit may be issued by the County Engineer to an
individual who complies with the following:
         (a)   Completes and files with the County Engineer an application for
excess weight permit DCF-01 (DCF-01 is attached herewith and marked Appendix A
for identification);
         (b)   Delivers to the County Treasurer the damage deposit. An
individual shall be required to deposit with the County Treasurer a sum
totaling $25,000 per mile or fraction of a mile times the number of miles of
blacktop designated county roads set forth in his or her application. If the
designated county road is a rock road, then the individual shall be required to
deposit $8,500 per mile or fraction of a mile times the number of miles of rock
road. When an excess weight permit lapses, any unused part of the damage
deposit remaining in the hands of the County Treasurer and not subject to road
repair costs shall be returned to the individual who tendered the deposit; and
         (c)   Delivers to the County Engineer a properly executed surety bond
DCF-02 (DCF-02 is attached herewith and marked Appendix A for identification).
Said bond shall be in the amount of $120,000 per mile or fraction thereof times
the number of miles of blacktop designated county roads. If the designated
county road is a rock road, then the surety bond shall be in the amount of
$43,500 per mile or fraction of a mile. Said surety bond shall have $25,000 per
mile deductibility for blacktop roads and a $8,500 per mile deductibility for
rock roads, so that the total of the damage deposit and surety bond for a
blacktop road does not exceed $120,000 per mile and for a rock road does not
exceed $43,500 per mile.
      (2)   An individual who has been issued an excess weight permit is
authorized to operate vehicles having a total gross weight not to exceed the
amount requested over the designated county roads set out in the application
for as long as the permit is valid. An excess weight permit shall be valid for
a period of one year from the date of issue without right of extension except
by reapplication.
      (3)   If an individual who has a valid excess weight permit operates a
vehicle weighing in excess of the amount authorized by the excess weight permit
or operates a vehicle weighing in excess of the posted weight on non-designated
county roads, in addition to any other remedy, he or she may have his or her
excess weight permit revoked. If said permit is revoked, then any unused
portion of the damage deposit shall be forfeited and become the property of the
county. A conviction for an excess weight violation shall be prima facie
evidence of violating this section.
      (4)   In the event more than one individual files an application to use
the same portions of designated county roads, then the individuals shall share
pro rata the funding of the damage deposit and surety bond for that portion of
designated county roads.
   (E)   Damage deposit and surety bond; liability of individual for cost of
road repair.
      (1)   The damage deposit shall be subject to assessment of costs for road
repair. The County Treasurer, upon receipt of the statement of costs from the
County Engineer, shall deduct the amount of costs from the damage deposit for
that portion of the designated county road on which the road repair was done.
In the event the costs exceed the damage deposit, the security bond shall be
subject to any excess costs to the full amount of the bond.
      (2)   The damage deposit shall be forfeited on a pro rata basis with
deposits by other parties, with the payments to the county to be charged
equally to each party making a damage deposit covering the portion of road
required to be repaired. If any party whose damage deposit is forfeited is of
the opinion that damage to the road was caused by some other party, his or her
sole remedy for recovery of his or her damage deposit shall be against the
other party or parties, and he or she shall be deemed subrogated to the rights
of the county for purposes of asserting said remedy. Any party who is of the
opinion that the damage to the road was caused by acts of God, may recover his
or her damage deposit from the county upon presenting proof sufficient to
overcome the presumption of this section.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective on January 3, 2002.
(Ord. KOC 520.1 (2002), passed 1-3-2002)
§ 70.05 COUNTY ROAD, STREET, AND BRIDGE SYSTEM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The roads and streets listed in Exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein comprise the “Daviess County Road and Street Index” and shall
be maintained by the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 621.15 (2012), passed 10-18-2012; Ord. KOC 621.15 (2014), passed 5-
15-2014; Ord. KOC 621.15 (2015), passed 5-21-2015; Ord. KOC 621.15 (2016),
passed 2-8-2016; Ord. KOC 621.17 (2017), passed 10-5-2017; Ord. KOC 621.19
(2020), passed 8-6-2020; Ord. KOC 621.21 (2022), passed 4-11-2022)
§ 70.06 SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLEY. A county road which has generally two open ends, each end connects
with different streets, and property generally backs onto both sides of the
alley.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a county
road if, within 600 feet along the county road, there are buildings in use for
business or industrial purposes that occupy 300 feet of frontage on one side of
300 feet collectively on both sides of the county road.
      COUNTY ROAD. A public road that has been formally accepted by the County
Fiscal Court as part of the county road system, or a private road, street, or
highway which has been acquired by the county pursuant to statute. COUNTY ROADS
include necessary bridges, culverts, sluices, drains, ditches, waterways,
embankments, or retaining walls.
      INTERNAL SUBDIVISION STREET. A county road located within a planned and
platted subdivision that primarily provides access to adjacent residential
lots.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a county
road not compromising a business district if the property on the county road
for a distance of 300 feet or more is improved with residence(s) or residences
and buildings in use for business.
   (B)   Speed limits. The speed limit for motor vehicles on county roads shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Fifteen mph on alleys;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph on internal subdivision streets;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph in a business or residential district; and
      (4)   Fifty-five mph on all other county roads.
   (C)   After reviewing prior ordinances establishing speed limits on certain
county roads and based upon the County Engineer's traffic and engineering
investigations, the Daviess Fiscal Court establishes the listed speed limits
for the following roads:
      (1)   Keller Road - 45 mph; and
      (2)   Sauer Lane - 45 mph.
   (D)   School zone for Meadow Lands Elementary School. Hayden Road - 25 mph
from one-eighth mile south of the south entrance to one-eighth mile north of
the north entrance.
   (E)   Effective date. This section becomes effective immediately upon
passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 530.13 (2011), passed 6- -2011; Ord. KOC 530.13 (2015), passed 7-6-
2015; Ord. KOC 530.14 (2020), passed 7-23-2020)
§ 70.07 GOLF CARTS.
   The operation of golf carts, low-speed vehicles, or utility vehicles, as
those terms are defined in the Kentucky Revised Statutes, is prohibited on all
public roadways, streets, or highways within Daviess County and the City of
Owensboro.
(Ord. 520.2 (2017), passed 10-19-2017)
APPENDIX A: EXCESS WEIGHT PERMIT
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
DAVIESS FISCAL COURT
DAVIESS COUNTY ENGINEER
IN RE:             )                                          APPLICATION
      EXCESS WEIGHT   )
      PERMIT
   1.
________________________________________________________________________________
hereinafter called APPLICANT, requests the Daviess County Engineer to issue him
or her an Excess Weight Permit for the hereinafter specifically described road
(s) and bridge(s).
NAME OF ROAD(S) AND BRIDGE(S)         FROM            TO            DISTANCE
(miles)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   2. This applicant agrees to assume the responsibility and conditions in the
Daviess County Ordinance regulating the issuance of Excess Weight Permits
including, but not limited to, assuming responsibility for making road repairs.
   3. The applicant tenders herewith a certified check made payable to the
Daviess County Treasurer in the amount of $_________, which is the required
amount of damage deposit for the designated county road(s) set out above.
   4. The applicant attaches herewith an executed Surety Bond DCF-02.
   5. Applicant states that _____________, having an address of
___________________________, and phone number of __________, is this
applicant’s authorized agent in this area who will be on
call on a 24-hour basis in case an emergency arises on the designated county
road(s).
EXCESS WEIGHT PERMIT
The Daviess County Engineer states that he or she has examined the application,
has received a certified check as set out in Paragraph No. 3 of the
application, has received a properly executed surety bond as set out in
Paragraph No. 4 of the application, has examined the proposed Daviess County
road(s), and has found that as of the date of issuance of this permit there are
no damages to said road(s) except as hereinafter set out.
NAME OF ROAD(S) AND BRIDGE(S)         FROM            TO            DISTANCE
(miles)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Having examined the foregoing, he or she is satisfied that the application
has met all the requirements for issuance of a permit and the applicant be and
is hereby authorized to operate vehicles having a total gross weight not to
exceed _________ pounds over the herein designated county road(s) for a period
of one year from date.
   This the _____ day of ____ , 201____.
                                                _______________________
                                                   County Engineer
      Applicant acknowledges road(s) in proper repair except for portions noted
herein.
                     ______________________________
                        Applicant
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
SURETY BOND
Permits to haul loads over county-maintained roads in Daviess County, Kentucky,
in motor trucks, semi-trailers, trailers, truck tractors, contract carriers,
and motor carriers shall be marked and identified.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
      WHEREAS, the hereinafter named principal has applied to the Daviess
County Engineer of Daviess County, Kentucky, for the issuance of a permit in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Daviess County Ordinance,
and the applicant is required to file a bond conditioned for the proper
compliance with the requirements of said Ordinance.
      NOW, THEREFORE, __________________________________________, hereinafter
called the PRINCIPAL, and ______________________________, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and authorized to transact
business in the State of Kentucky, hereinafter called the SURETY, are held and
firmly bound unto Daviess County, hereinafter called the OBLIGEE, the sum of
$120,000 per mile, less $25,000 deductibility damage deposit, for blacktop
roads and $43,500 per mile, less $8,500 deductibility deposit, for rock roads,
the payment of which sum, well and truly to be made, we hereby bind ourselves,
our corporate officers, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors and
assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
THE CONDITIONS OF THIS OBLIGATION ARE SUCH THAT IF THE PRINCIPAL SHALL:
   Repair or pay for the cost of repairing damage to the designated county road
(s) or bridge(s) listed below as determined by the Daviess County Engineer, in
the event the damage deposit is not sufficient to cover the costs of repair.
NAME OF ROAD(S) AND BRIDGE(S)         FROM            TO            DISTANCE
(miles)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
THEN THIS OBLIGATION SHALL BE VOID: OTHERWISE TO BE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT.
      The obligation of this bond shall be due and payable on a pro rata basis
with bonds by other parties, with the payments to the County to be charged
equally to each party making a bond covering the portion of road required to be
repaired. If any party whose bond is forfeited, is of the opinion that damage
to the road was caused by some other party, his or her sole remedy for recovery
of his or her payment in accordance with this bond shall be against the other
party or parties, and he or she shall be deemed subrogated to the rights of the
County for purposes of asserting said remedy. Any party who is of the opinion
that the damage to the road was caused by Acts of God, may recover his or her
bond from the County upon presenting proof sufficient to overcome the
presumption of this bond.
      This bond expires one year from the date hereof.
      IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, witness our hand and seal this ________ day of
________, 201_.
                                             ___________________________
                                                Principal
                                             ___________________________
                                                Title
                                             ___________________________
                                                Surety
NOTICE:   Professional Surety must be
      licensed to execute bonds in the
      State of Kentucky and will have
      a firmly established resident agency in
      Owensboro Daviess County Kentucky
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits for county roads
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS FOR COUNTY ROADS.
   After reviewing prior ordinances establishing speed limits on certain county
roads and based upon the County Engineer’s traffic and engineering
investigations, the County Fiscal Court establishes the listed speed limits for
the following roads.
County Road Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road                           Speed Limit Ord. No.          Date Passed
Calumet Trace from Pleasant Valley    25 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
Drive
Cecil Road                            25 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
Fisher Road beginning 0.15 miles from 45 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
Highway 81 and ending at Carter Road
Hayden Road, school zone for Meadow
Lands Elementary School, from one
eighth mile south of the south        25 mph      KOC 530.14 (2020) 7-23-2020
entrance to one eighth mile north of
the north entrance
Keller Road                           45 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
Pleasant Valley Road between Thruston 35 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
Dermont Road and Reid Road
Sauer Lane                            45 mph      KOC 530.13 (2011) 6- -2011
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE ENFORCEMENT
      
94.   UNSOLICITED WRITTEN MATERIALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Control
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Mandatory licensing registration and tag required
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
   
90.04   Animal nuisances and animals as prizes prohibited
   
90.05   Quarantine required
   
90.06   Chaining and tethering system
   
90.07   Kennels; requirements and regulations
   
90.08   Standards for kennels, pet shops, and commercial animal establishments
   
90.09   Impoundment
   
90.10   Restraint
   
90.11   Keeping of non-domesticated animals prohibited
   
90.12   Sterilization
   
90.13   Microchip location device
   
90.14   Notices and warnings; fees and verbal warnings
   
90.15   Effective date
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.30   Definition
   
90.31   Dangerous dog exemption
   
90.32   Duties of owner
   
90.33   Duties of Animal Control
   
90.34   Enforcement
   
90.35   Effective date
Poultry Operations
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   New and expanded poultry operation
   
90.52   New and existing poultry operation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The intentional relinquishment and control of domesticated animals
without appropriate safeguards for the animal’s well-being.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the city or county, as
required by KRS 258.915, to assist in the operation of the Animal Shelter and
to enforce this subchapter and state laws regarding animal control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the city, county, or any
governmental agency or humane society for the purpose of impounding or caring
for animals.
   CAT. Any age feline of the domesticated type.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, riding school
or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition, or kennel,
but shall not include a licensed veterinarian.
   DOG. Any age canine of the domestic type.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of the following animals: domestic dog, cat, rabbit,
mouse, rat, reptile, guinea pig, chinchilla, hamster, gerbil, or ferret.
   FARM. A land area containing ten or more contiguous acres.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any organization existing for the purpose of preventing
cruelty to animals.
   KENNEL. Any premises where any person or entity engages in boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for fee, selling, providing
temporary sanctuary, rescuing, or adopting dogs or cats, except a KENNEL shall
not include boarding at a facility owned and operated by a licensed
veterinarian.
   LIVESTOCK.
      (1)   All cattle, buffaloes, or animals of the bovine species;
      (2)   All horses, mules, burros, and asses or animals of the equine
species;
      (3)   All goats or animals of the caprice species;
      (4)   All swine or animals of the porcine species;
      (5)   All sheep or animals of the ovine species;
      (6)   All fowl or animals of the order galliforme (gamebirds);
      (7)   All ducks and geese or animals of the anatidae (water fowl) family;
      (8)   All ostrich, emu, rhea, and cassowaries, or animals of the ratite
order; or
      (9)   All llamas or animals of the camelid family and deer and elk, whose
regulatory requirements are under KRS Chs. 150 and 246, as well as poultry,
ratite, and corvine.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal including, but not limited to felines (other than the
domestic house cat), non-human primates, bears, wolves, coyotes, foxes, and
venomous reptiles, and any crossbreed of such animals which have similar
characteristics of the animals specified herein.
      (2)   In order to properly administer the provisions of this section, the
County Fiscal Court may add to or remove from the classification of non-
domestic animal any bird, mammal, reptile, aquatic and amphibious forms, or
other members of the animal kingdom.
      (3)   Additions to the list may be made only if the Fiscal Court
determines, after public hearing, that such species because of habit, mode of
life, or natural instinct is incapable of being domesticated; requires the
exercise of art, force, or skill to keep them safely in subjection; and would
create a reasonable likelihood of hazard to the public.
      (4)   Each determination by the legislative body as to additions or
deletions shall become effective when filed with the County Judge/Executive and
approved by County Fiscal Court.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. For purposes of enforcing this subchapter, an animal shall
be deemed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive
days.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. Under no
circumstances shall a non-domestic animal or livestock, as defined in this
subchapter be considered a PET unless specifically provided by this subchapter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal(s) creates a public nuisance if the animal:
      (1)   Molests or chases passersby or passing motor vehicles, bicycles, or
scooters other than those owned or operated by the same person or his or her
immediate family who keeps, owns, or harbors the animal;
      (2)   While off the owner’s (or person charged with caring or controlling
the animal) property, attacks, threatens, worries, injures, or kills domestic
animals, or livestock or runs at, jumps upon, chases, bites at, or in any other
way frightens, molests, or scares any child or adult other than the one who
owns, keeps, or harbors the animal and the members of his or her immediate
family;
      (3)   Trespasses by going upon any property or premises not owned or
occupied by the person who keeps, harbors, or owns the animal, including school
grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property including, turns over, gets
into, or otherwise damages or disturbs garbage cans, or any items or personal
property located on any premises other than those owned or occupied by the
person who owns, keeps, or harbors the animal or goes upon public cemeteries,
trails, parks, and playgrounds, except at designated parks or under restraint;
      (6)   Barks, whines, mews, crows, cackles, or howls excessively or
continuously and loud enough to be heard beyond the premises of where it is
kept or harbored;
      (7)   Allows offensive odors or unclean or unsanitary conditions on
property where animals are kept. Causes fouling of the air by noxious or
offensive odors resulting from the accumulation of animal excrement and thereby
creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored because of the
failure to keep the animal’s pen, yard, lot, or other enclosures in a sanitary
condition and free from preventable odors;
      (8)   Is a dog or other animal over four months of age that is capable of
carrying the rabies virus and recommended to be vaccinated by the Cabinet for
Health and Family Services, which animal is maintained, kept, or harbored and
does not have a current rabies vaccination; and/or
      (9)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare
by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single residence, or the
inadequacy of the facilities, or the inability to provide proper care for those
animals.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any real property defined as residential by the
Owensboro Metropolitan Zoning Ordinance within the geographical boundary of
Daviess County, Kentucky, used primarily for human occupancy.
   RESTRAINT. The act of restraining or securing any animal by tether, leash,
lead, or under control of a responsible person and obedient to that person’s
commands or confined to the real property limits of its owner. Hunting dogs,
while accompanied by their owner or a responsible person and under the control
of that person, are excluded from this restriction.
   SHELTER. A moisture-proof structure of suitable size and composition to
accommodate the animal and allow retention of body heat, with a sufficient
quantity of suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection against heat,
cold, and dampness or other environmental conditions detrimental to the animal.
   TETHERING SYSTEM. A method of confining a dog to the owner’s property by use
of a ten-foot chain with swivels on both ends and attached to a pulley or
overhead trolley, at least ten feet in length, and mounted no more than seven
feet above the ground.
   VACCINATION. The injection of any dog or cat by a veterinarian or other
qualified person of a vaccine approved by and administered according to the
regulations of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services.
   WHOLESOME FOOD. Food which is palatable, safe, and not contaminated.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.02 MANDATORY LICENSING REGISTRATION AND TAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person who keeps or maintains any dog over the age of four
months must, within 30 days of becoming a county resident, obtain and
continuously maintain a dog license.
   (B)   Upon annual presentation of proof of a rabies vaccination and payment
of a $5 license fee, the County Animal Control Officer shall issue a county dog
license.
   (C)   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the Animal Control
Officer shall issue a durable metal license tag, which has a unique number for
each dog. Such license tag is not transferable and must be attached, along with
the rabies vaccination tag, to the collar around the neck of the dog. The
Animal Control Officer shall keep a record of all license tags issued.
   (D)   Dog licenses shall bear a registration number, shall attach to a
suitable collar, and shall remain on the dog at all times. Failure to comply
with this licensing requirement may result in penalties provided in KRS
258.990.
   (E)   The dog license application shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Name of dog, if any;
      (3)   Breed of dog;
      (4)   Color of dog; and
      (5)   Sex of dog.
   (F)   The owner of a dog required to be licensed under this subchapter shall
provide a collar with dog license attached to the collar and shall keep the
collar on the dog at all times.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Beat intentionally or strike repeatedly, maim, mutilate, disfigure,
torture, torment, burn or scald, overload, treat cruelly, or otherwise
intentionally injure or cause the death of any animal;
   (B)   Fail to provide the animal, belonging to him or her, or under his or
her control, with wholesome food and water in sufficient quantity and
nutritional value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal; to adequately shelter the animal from rain, hail, sleet,
snow, or a surrounding environment causing the animal to suffer or die;
   (C)   Fail to provide domestic animals with appropriate shade during times
of extreme heat; appropriate shade may include tarps, sunshades, or roofed
structures;
   (D)   Fail to provide domestic animals, which are continuously confined,
with sufficient room necessary for daily exercise;
   (E)   Fail to keep a domestic animal in an area that is dry, clean,
sanitary, and free from offensive odors and its own waste;
   (F)   Confine for an extended period of time an animal in any pen, cage,
coop, crate, or any other such place or enclosure that is too small for the
size of the animal. A confined area or enclosure may be deemed too small if the
animal is unable to stand up and turn around, regardless of the type of
enclosure used;
   (G)   Construct floors in a manner which fails to protect the confined
domestic animals’ feet and legs from injury. If the floor is mesh or slatted,
it shall not permit any animals’ feet or any portion to pass through any
opening in the floor. If the floor of the primary enclosure is constructed of
wire, a solid resting surface or surfaces shall be provided. This resting
surface must be large enough to comfortably and simultaneously hold all the
occupants of the primary enclosure;
   (H)   Abandon any domestic animal or livestock while under the possession,
care, custody, or control of a person. Abandonment may consist of leaving such
animal for a period exceeding 24 hours without food or water. An abandoned
animal may be impounded by any law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer and confined in the County Animal Shelter;
   (I)   Permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between
animals or between animals and humans. If the law enforcement officer(s) or
Animal Control Officer(s) has reasonable cause to suspect that an animal is
involved in a dogfight, cockfight, or other combat, as defined by KRS 525.125,
the animal may be impounded by the law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer and confined in the County Animal Shelter. Said animal shall be held as
evidence and confined in such facility in a humane manner. Upon a finding by
the Court that the animal has been involved in a dogfight, cockfight, or other
combat between animals, the animal shall become the property of the County
Fiscal Court or held for disposition as ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (J)   Allow any ill or injured domestic animal to go without appropriate and
reasonable veterinary care;
   (K)   Crop a dog’s ears, except by a licensed veterinarian;
   (L)   Fail to report striking a domestic animal or livestock while operating
a motor vehicle. The operator of a motor vehicle which strikes a domestic
animal or livestock shall immediately report the incident to the animal’s owner
or caretaker. If the operator cannot locate the owner or a caretaker, the
vehicle operator shall report the accident to a law enforcement officer, an
Animal Control Officer, or to the local Humane Society;
   (M)   Expose a domestic animal to a known poisonous substance which is
available and susceptible to being eaten by such animal. However, it shall be
lawful for a person to place on his or her property rat poison if mixed with
vegetable substances;
   (N)   Inflict pain, injury, or death to an animal by striking, beating,
dropping, kicking, dragging, strangling, choking, or by using an object or
weapon;
   (O)   Cause pain, injury, or death to an animal by caustic, flammable,
boiling, or heated substances; or
   (P)   Cause injury or death to an animal by suffocation or drowning; or
failing to provide health related grooming.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL NUISANCES AND ANIMALS AS PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain livestock or a non-domestic animal on
a residential property of less than two acres and within 100 feet of a dwelling
not owned or occupied by the owner of the livestock or non-domestic animal.
      (1)   Except an owner of at least one-half acre or more may keep six or
fewer female chickens for personal, family, or home use in a fence or structure
of sufficient height and construction to prevent the animal(s) from leaving the
owner’s property. The owner shall maintain the fence or structure in good
repair. All gates or doors to the fence or structure shall fit properly and
shall be locked or secured by a latch. Fences or structures must be at least 50
feet from a dwelling not owned or occupied by the owner of the chickens.
      (2)   Except an owner may raise and breed homing or racing pigeons. All
lofts, bins, and other structures used by residents to raise, breed, and
otherwise house homing pigeons shall conform to all existing rules and
regulations of the planning and zoning regulations and it is further provided
that no structure shall be so located on any lot that is closer than 50 feet
from a dwelling not owned or occupied by the owner of the pigeons.
      (3)   Except an owner may keep domestic small animals (not including dogs
and cats) for personal, family, or home use in a fence or structure of
sufficient height and construction to prevent the animal(s) from leaving the
owner’s property. The owner shall maintain the fence or structure in good
repair. All gates or doors to the fence or structure shall fit properly and
shall be locked or secured by a latch. Fences or structures must be at least 50
feet from a dwelling not owned or occupied by the owner of the domestic small
animals (not including dogs and cats).
   (B)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any animal that unreasonably
annoys humans, endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or
substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owner’s,
to enjoyment of life or property. Evidence establishing a nuisance, besides the
definition of public nuisance above, includes, but is not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Allowing dogs to threaten, worry, harass, injure, or kill domestic
animals or livestock off the owner’s (or one charged with the care and control
of the dog) property;
      (2)   Allowing dogs to run at large, repeatedly allowing dogs to chase,
jump at or on, bark at, or otherwise annoy or threaten passing pedestrians,
bicyclists, motorcyclists, or operators of motorized vehicles;
      (3)   Allowing animals to disturb the peace and quiet of any person by
excessive, continuous, or untimely noises including, but not limited to,
barking, howling, yelping, mewing, crowing, cackling, or whining in any
neighborhood located in the county or any city;
      (4)   Allowing offensive odors or otherwise unclean or unsanitary
conditions on property where animals are kept and maintained; allowing animals
to trespass on or damage private or public property;
      (5)   Allowing dogs to run at large off the owner or caretaker’s
property;
      (6)   Maintaining, keeping, or harboring any dog, cat, or ferret over
four months old that does not have a current rabies vaccination;
      (7)   Offering or giving away any live animal as a prize or reward in
connection with any raffle, protest, demonstration, promotion, or as a part of
any gratuity or pecuniary exchange to induce entry into any game, contest, or
other competition, except livestock or hunting animal, offered or given away as
a part of a farm youth education program or other similar program offered by a
not for profit entity. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the auction or
sale of animals. Each offering or giving away of an animal in violation of this
section shall be deemed a separate offense;
      (8)   Keeping any animal known to carry or is susceptible to carrying the
rabies virus and which cannot be effectively vaccinated against the rabies
virus with any vaccine approved by the Commonwealth Cabinet for Health and
Family Services; or
      (9)   Keeping any hybrid animal or any wildlife which has attacked a
human or which is apprehended or observed unrestrained.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 QUARANTINE REQUIRED.
   (A)   When an animal bites a person, the incident shall be reported to an
Animal Control Officer and to the Green River District Health Department. Any
dog, cat, ferret, or other animal that bites a person shall be quarantined so
that the animal may not come in contact with a person or animal. All animals
shall remain in quarantine for ten days, or as provided in KRS 258.085.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, every physician shall,
within 12 hours following his or her professional attendance of a person bitten
by an animal, report the incident to the Green River District Health Department
listing the victim’s name, age, sex, and precise location of the bite. If a
child is bitten and no physician attends, the report shall be made by his or
her parents, guardian, or person in care of the child at time of incident. If
an adult is bitten and no physician attends, he or she or the person caring for
him or her shall make the report.
   (C)   If the Green River District Health Department is closed, the incident
shall be reported the next working day.
   (D)   If an animal bite occurs off the owner’s property and not under the
control of the owner, the animal shall be quarantined at the County Animal
Shelter or at any licensed veterinarian facility.
   (E)   If an animal bite occurs on the owner’s property or under the control
of the owner, the Green River District Health Department shall decide where to
quarantine the animal. If the animal is quarantined on the owner’s property,
the animal shall be kept within an enclosure or with restraints deemed adequate
by the County Animal Shelter to prevent direct contact with a person or other
animal.
   (F)   Following the ten-day quarantine period, the animal, if found free of
rabies, may be released from quarantine by the Green River District Health
Department. An environmentalist with the Green River District Health Department
shall prepare a written statement that the animal has been examined and found
free of any signs or symptoms of rabies and that the animal has been inoculated
against rabies.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.06 CHAINING AND TETHERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any chain, leash, or tethering system, as defined by this subchapter,
shall confine the dog within the owner’s real property boundaries.
   (B)   No chain, leash, or other connection to the tethering system shall
exceed one-eighth of the dog’s body weight.
   (C)   Any chain, leash, or tethering system shall be at least ten feet in
length, have swivels on both ends, and designed to prevent the animal from
choking or strangling.
   (D)   Any chain, leash, or tethering system must attach to a properly-fitted
collar or harness worn by the animal.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.07 KENNELS; REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Upon application to the Director of the County Animal Shelter, the
Director may issue a kennel license.
   (B)   If an owner/operator of a kennel receives a kennel license, then this
license shall be sufficient to cover all animals maintained by the kennel and
the kennel shall not be required to obtain a license, registration, or permit
for each individual animal.
   (C)   The Director shall issue kennel licenses only after an Animal Control
Officer inspects the proposed kennel site and finds that the facility meets the
terms and provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   All dogs and cats over four months of age maintained or kept in a
licensed kennel shall have a current rabies vaccination, pursuant to KRS
258.015, which shall govern the enforcement of this division (D).
   (E)   Licensed kennels shall provide veterinary care for all animals within
the kennel’s control to maintain good health and the general welfare of the
animals.
   (F)   (1)   Kennel owners shall renew their license annually by applying to
the Director of the Animal Shelter and paying a $25 kennel license fee.
      (2)   Any nonprofit organization shall be exempt from the fee for any and
all kennels operating solely as a part of the business of the nonprofit
organization.
      (3)   Any such nonprofit may file one application for all kennels
operating solely as a part of its business and shall list the addresses and
maximum number of animals kept at all such kennels on its application.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.08 STANDARDS FOR KENNELS, PET SHOPS, AND COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All kennels, whether commercial or noncommercial, pet
shops, and commercial animal establishments shall, in addition to the other
requirements of this subchapter, comply with minimum standards of this section.
Failure to comply may result in the denial or revocation of a license and the
issuance of a citation subjecting the owner to the penalties in §
90.99. Facilities are subject to inspection by the Animal Control Officer or
other law enforcement officer upon an officer’s request during business hours.
   (B)   Housing. Any enclosure designed primarily for the use of keeping or
maintaining animals. Owners and operators of enclosures shall:
      (1)   Construct floors in a manner to protect the confined animals’ feet
and legs from injury. If the floor is mesh or slatted, it shall not permit any
animals’ feet or any portion to pass through any opening in the floor. If the
floor of the primary enclosure is constructed of wire, a solid resting surface
or surfaces shall be provided. This resting surface must be large enough to
comfortably and simultaneously hold all the occupants of the primary enclosure;
      (2)   Provide adequate protection against weather-related extremes.
Floors of buildings, runs, and walks shall be of such material to permit proper
cleaning and disinfecting and be maintained in good repair;
      (3)   Protect the animals from injury;
      (4)   Shelter animals securely and keep other animals from entering the
enclosure;
      (5)   Provide the building with adequate ventilation and temperature
control;
      (6)   Provide sufficient shade, in addition to shelter, for all the
animals housed in the enclosure;
      (7)   Regularly clean, sanitize, and replace when worn or soiled surfaces
that animals come into routine contact with;
      (8)   Provide all animals adequate space to stand up, lie down, and turn
around in a natural position without touching the sides or top of the cage.
Crates and pet taxis are not acceptable for full time containment of animals;
      (9)   Ensure all runs provide adequate exercise area and protection from
the weather; and
      (10)   Ensure all animal enclosures, including cages and runs are clean,
dry, and sanitary.
   (C)   Lighting. All areas where animals are housed shall be lighted to
permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the
animals. A regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural and/or artificial
light shall be provided, and lighting shall be uniformly diffused throughout
the facility for the well-being of the animals.
   (D)   Ventilation. All housing areas shall be sufficiently ventilated when
animals are present to provide for their health and well-being and to minimize
odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ventilation shall be
provided by windows, vents, fans, air conditioning, or other generally accepted
systems for the particular species of animal. Auxiliary ventilation, such as
fans, blowers, or air conditioning shall be provided when the ambient
temperature is 85° F or higher.
   (E)   Sanitation. Excreta and food waste shall be removed from primary
enclosures daily or as often as necessary to prevent an accumulation of feces
and food waste, to prevent soiling of the animals contained in the primary
enclosures, and to reduce disease hazards, insects, pests, and odors.
   (F)   Exercise. Kennel, pet shop, and commercial animal establishment owners
and operators shall develop, document, and follow an appropriate plan to
provide animals with an opportunity for ordinary and necessary exercise.
   (G)   Feeding and watering. Except as otherwise prescribed by a
veterinarian, all animals in a kennel, pet shop, or commercial animal
establishment shall be fed daily, other than certain reptiles and amphibians.
Reptiles and amphibians shall be fed in accordance with the customary feeding
habits of the species. The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome,
palatable, and of a sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal
daily requirement for the condition and size of the animal. Food receptacles
must be used and be readily accessible to all animals, be located so as to
minimize contamination by excreta and pests, and be protected from rain and
snow. Feeding pans must either be made of a durable material that can be easily
cleaned and sanitized or be disposable. All animals shall have fresh water
available at all times. Water vessels shall be mounted or secure in a manner
that prevents tipping and be of the removal type. Water receptacles must be
kept clean and sanitized.
   (H)   Kennel licenses and fees. The fee for an annual kennel license shall
be $25.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs running at large, abandoned, or without proper restraints or
animals creating a nuisance shall be taken to the Animal Shelter by the
authorized Animal Control Officer and impounded. If a law enforcement officer
responds to dogs running at large or without proper restraints or animals
creating a nuisance and if the animal poses a danger to the public or other
animals, the officer shall notify Animal Control and if possible, keep the
animal under surveillance until it can be apprehended by the Animal Control
Officer.
   (B)   Impounded animals may be kept for at least five days for
identification and reclaiming by the owner. This requirement may be waived by
the Animal Control Officer or his or her agent if an impounded animal has an
injury or physical condition, which causes the animal to suffer or causes other
animals to suffer. In addition, any animal voluntarily surrendered by its owner
does not have to be impounded for the five-day limit.
   (C)   After five days of impoundment, and if the owner has not reclaimed the
animal, the County Animal Shelter may treat the animal as voluntarily
surrendered.
   (D)   During the initial five-day impoundment, the County Animal Shelter
shall attempt to locate and notify the impounded animal’s owner.
   (E)   An owner of an impounded animal so notified may reclaim the animal and
shall pay to the County Animal Shelter the impoundment fee and any additional
ordinary, necessary, and reasonable expenses incurred by the County Animal
Shelter resulting from the impoundment including, but not limited to,
veterinary expenses. Failure to pay the impoundment and other fees shall result
in the animal being declared voluntarily surrendered.
      (1)   The Animal Shelter may charge the owner $20 to reclaim an animal
impounded by the Shelter.
      (2)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five days shall become
the property of the Animal Shelter and shall be placed for adoption or humanely
euthanized.
      (3)   The reclamation fee shall double for each additional time the owner
reclaims the same animal (i.e., $40 for the second offense, $80 for the third
offense).
      (4)   The Animal Shelter may waive or reduce the reclamation fee for an
animal if the owner:
         (a)   Is a county resident;
         (b)   Agrees to insert a microchip location device chip in the animal
either by the Animal Shelter or a veterinarian;
         (c)   Pays the cost of the chip insertion to the Animal Shelter or
veterinarian; and
         (d)   Agrees to spay or neuter the animal before the Animal Shelter
releases the animal.
      (5)   For any third impoundment or subsequent impoundment, the Animal
Shelter shall require the owner to pay the cost of inserting a chip and shall
require the owner to spay or neuter the animal before releasing the animal to
the owner.
      (6)   If an animal has a serious physical injury creating substantial
risk of death, the Animal Control Officers may euthanize the animal
immediately.
      (7)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding any animal found at large
in the county, or any city therein, law enforcement officer or other Animal
Control Officer may proceed against the owner as provided in §
90.99.
      (8)   Any dog found within county without a required license and
registration from the county, or any animal which violates any provision of
this subchapter, may be impounded by a person or agent authorized to enforce
this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.10 RESTRAINT.
   Owners shall restrain all domestic animals except cats.
   (A)   Running at large. No owner or person in charge of any animal shall
permit such animal to run at large unless such animal (except cats) is under
the absolute control of the owner or his or her agent.
   (B)   Confinement. Owners shall confine all domestic female dogs or cats in
heat in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such animal cannot
come into contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Any dog used to assist in hunting during a lawful hunting season
shall not be subject to this section while engaged in any hunting activity
unless such animal constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other
animals, in which case all related provisions hereto shall apply.
      (2)   Any animal raised for commercial purposes and maintained on any
farm in the county or other areas except incorporated cities, unincorporated
residential neighborhoods, and towns, shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section to the extent that said animal does not constitute a physical
threat to human beings or other animals.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 KEEPING OF NON-DOMESTICATED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any non-
domesticated animal.
   (A)   Exceptions. This section shall not be construed to apply to the
following:
      (1)   Licensed circuses and theatrical exhibits;
      (2)   Authorized wildlife rehabilitators with any required state-issued
or federally-issued permit, subject to the restrictions below;
      (3)   Licensed veterinary hospitals for the purpose of treating injured
animals;
      (4)   Federally-licensed research institutions;
      (5)   Zoological parks; or
      (6)   Museum of Science and History.
   (B)   Authorized wildlife rehabilitators.
      (1)   Those parties legally possessing non-domestic animals under a
state-issued or federally-issued permit, which would have been legal before the
effective date of this subchapter, may continue to possess such animals until
the expiration date of the original permit. Permits when renewed will subject
the owner to the prohibitions of this subchapter, including the prohibition of
non-domestic animals on residentially zoned lots of less than two acres. Small
non-domestic animals, kept exclusively indoors, may be kept on residentially
zoned lots of less than two acres.
      (2)   Any party legally owning, harboring, or keeping an animal under
this section shall register with the Director of the County Animal Shelter
within 30 days of the effective date of this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon the presentation of a state-issued or federally-issued permit,
the Director of the County Animal Shelter shall issue a county permit after an
inspection to ensure the permit holder meets the conditions and restrictions of
this subchapter.
      (4)   Under no circumstances may a person keep non-domestic (wild)
animals on residential property of less than two acres after December 31, 2013,
except as permitted by division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Compliance. Any person keeping non-domestic animals permitted by this
subchapter shall comply with the standards set forth in the Commonwealth
Department of Fish and Wildlife regulations (301 KAR), KRS 150, and applicable
federal statutes and regulations. Additionally, the owners/keepers of such non-
domestic animals shall register ownership with the Director of the County
Animal Shelter within 30 days of obtaining such animal and provide the Director
with a copy of all documents from the commonwealth or the United States
permitting owners to possess the animal. The permittee shall register with the
Director of Animal Control annually, in January, for as long as the permittee
retains the permit.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 STERILIZATION.
   (A)   No animal shall be released for adoption from the County Animal
Shelter unless the new owner agrees to subject the animal to the spay-neuter
program sponsored by the County Fiscal Court and the payment of any and all
applicable fees required.
   (B)   The County Animal Shelter may refuse to release any animal for
adoption.
   (C)   Any 501(c)(3) organization or other similar organization may release
an animal for adoption in the county only if the organization spays or neuters
the animal before adoption and complies with the terms of this subchapter
regarding kennel licenses.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.13 MICROCHIP LOCATION DEVICE.
   The County Animal Shelter shall not release any animal for adoption unless
the new owner participates in the microchip program sponsored by the County
Fiscal Court and pays any and all applicable fees.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
§ 90.14 NOTICES AND WARNINGS; FEES AND VERBAL WARNINGS.
   (A)   Licensing registration and tag violations.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the owner of a
dog found without a license.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a licensing notice in lieu of a
citation for failure to license or register a dog as required by this
subchapter.
      (3)   The notice shall provide a compliance date, associated fees, and
costs for registration.
      (4)   The licensing notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving a notice fails to comply with the terms of
the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation for the
violation.
   (B)   Cruelty violations.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to any person who
violates §
90.03.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue an animal care notice in lieu
of a citation.
      (3)   The animal care notice shall provide the owner with terms and a
date for compliance with this subchapter, and an explanation of the acts
constituting a cruelty violation.
      (4)   The animal care notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving an animal care notice fails to comply with
the terms of the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation
for the violation.
   (C)   Animal nuisances and animals as prizes.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to any person who
violates §
90.04.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a disturbance notice in lieu of
a citation.
      (3)   The disturbance notice shall provide the owner with the terms and a
date for compliance with this subchapter, and an explanation of the acts
constituting a violation of the disturbance.
      (4)   The disturbance notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving a disturbance notice fails to comply with
the terms of the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation
for the violation.
   (D)   Restraint.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to any person who
violates §
90.10.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a restraint notice in lieu of a
citation.
      (3)   The restraint notice shall provide the owner with the terms, a date
for compliance with this subchapter, and an explanation of the acts
constituting a violation of restraint.
      (4)   The restraint notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving a restraint notice fails to comply with the
terms of the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation for
the violation.
   (E)   Vaccination notice.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to any person who
violates KRS Ch. 258, pertaining to vaccination.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a vaccination notice in lieu of
a citation.
      (3)   The vaccination notice shall provide the owner with the terms and a
date for compliance with Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (4)   The vaccination notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving a vaccination notice fails to comply with
the terms of the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation
for the violation.
   (F)   Sterilization notice.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to any person who
violates §
90.12.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may issue a sterilization notice in lieu
of a citation.
      (3)   The sterilization notice shall provide the owner with the terms and
a date for compliance with this subchapter.
      (4)   The sterilization notice shall provide that by acceptance of the
notice, the owner waives his or her rights to a hearing, appeal, or protest of
the violation.
      (5)   If any owner receiving a sterilization notice fails to comply with
the terms of the notice, an Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation
for the violation.
   (G)   Warning citation. Where an Animal Control Officer observes a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter, the Officer may issue a warning
citation, in lieu of a violation notice or uniform citation, stipulating a time
by which corrective action must be administered. If the owner does not comply
with the terms of the warning citation by the specified time, a violation
notice or uniform citation may be issued.
   (H)   Fees. All fees provided for in this subchapter are set forth in the
County Animal Shelter policy manual which is presently in effect and may be
modified by future County Fiscal Court action.
   (I)   Verbal warnings in lieu of fees. At the discretion of the Animal
Control Officer, in lieu of assessing a fee or citation as described in this
section, a verbal warning of correction may first be given.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-24-2013)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that bites or attacks any person or has attempted to bite
or attack any person. A dog may be found to have attempted to attack or bite if
while restrained by a leash, fence, or other means, it is clear from the dog’s
actions that only the presence of the leash, fence, or other means of restraint
prevented the dog from making an immediate attack;
      (2)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to
cause injury, or otherwise threaten the safety of domestic animals; or any dog
which attacks a person or domestic animal without provocation or without
justification;
      (3)   Any dog whether leashed or not, which, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches any person in a public place including sidewalks, or any
public grounds and in reasonable fear of imminent physical harm;
      (4)   Any dog that exhibits an unreasonably aggressive pattern of
behavior including, but not limited to: charging a person or a domestic animal
from within or outside its enclosure, snarling, or growling excessively at a
person or creating alarm and appears to Animal Control that the dog may readily
escape its enclosure or confinement; or
      (5)   Any dog used in the commission of a crime as provided in the
Kentucky Penal Code including, but not limited to dog fighting, threatening or
menacing, or guarding the conduct of unlawful activity.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 90.31 DANGEROUS DOG EXEMPTION.
   A dog shall not be considered dangerous if:
   (A)   The dog attacked or injured a person who was trespassing upon the
premises of the dog’s owner at the time of the attack or injury;
   (B)   The dog attacked or injured a person who (at the time) was committing
or attempting to commit a crime on the premises occupied by the dog’s owner at
the time of the attack or injury;
   (C)   The dog attacked or injured a person who was tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog at the time of the attack or injury;
   (D)   A dog which injures or attacks a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog while working as a hunting dog, herding dog,
or predator control dog on the property of or under the control of its owner;
   (E)   The dog was protecting or defending a person from an attack or assault
and the person protected was within the immediate vicinity of the dog;
   (F)   The dog, while acting under the control or supervision of an official
acting within the scope of his or her duties as a military, correctional, or
law enforcement official trained to supervise the dog; or
   (G)   The Animal Control Warden or Animal Control Officer, after
investigation, reasonably believes the dog acted due to pain or injury; or was
protecting itself, its kennel, or its offspring.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 90.32 DUTIES OF OWNER.
   (A)   Outdoor confinement.
      (1)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall securely enclose the dog.
      (2)   Secured enclosure shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Locked pen or structure at least five feet by ten feet and of
sufficient height to prevent the dog’s escape (minimum of six feet);
         (b)   Designed to prevent entry by young children;
         (c)   Sides of structure or pen are securely attached to flooring
which prevents the dog’s escape;
         (d)   Complies with §§
90.01 through
90.15; and
         (e)   Displays a warning “dangerous dog” visible from at least 20
feet; including a symbol indicating the presence of a dangerous dog.
      (3)   If the dog is not on the owner’s premises, the owner is required
to:
         (a)   Muzzle and restrain the dog with a leash or lead not to exceed
four feet in length;
         (b)   Muzzle should prevent injury to the dog, not interfering with
the dog’s vision or breathing, but should be designed to prevent the dog from
biting a person or another animal; or
         (c)   Ensure the dog is under the control of a responsible adult
capable of controlling the dog while leashed.
   (B)   Indoor confinement.
      (1)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog within the
confinement of the owner’s home.
      (2)   While indoors, the owner of a dangerous dog shall ensure the dog
cannot leave the home/structure unless under control and supervision defined in
division (A)(3)(c) above.
   (C)   Licensing surcharge. The annual licensing fee for a dangerous dog
shall include a $50 surcharge in addition to the regular licensing fee. The
surcharge required by this provision shall be enforced by Animal Control.
   (D)   Ownership.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to receive or harbor a dog declared or
determined dangerous/vicious by a court or government of another county or
state.
      (2)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall notify the County Animal Shelter
of the transfer of ownership of the dog and provide the shelter with the name,
address, and phone number of the dog’s new owner within ten days of the
transfer.
      (3)   A microchip shall be implanted by a licensed veterinarian in all
dangerous dogs. The owner shall provide the following information:
         (a)   Security name (password);
         (b)   Owner’s name;
         (c)   Dog’s name;
         (d)   Color of dog;
         (e)   Dog’s date of birth; and
         (f)   Contact phone number.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL.
   When a dog is deemed dangerous, the Animal Control Warden may order:
   (A)   The dog to be spayed or neutered, if not already altered, unless a
veterinarian certifies in writing that the dog is medically unfit for
alteration; and/or
   (B)   A report with the County Court Clerk’s office verifying the dog is
dangerous. Such report shall include names and address of owner, detailed
description of dog, and qualifying papers stating dog is dangerous, such as a
court order.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 90.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with a Dog
Warden, law enforcement officer, or Animal Control Officer in carrying out and
enforcing this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to the current provisions of KRS Ch. 258
and all subsequent amendments from the date of their enactment into law unless
specifically limited or qualified by amendment to this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008)
§ 90.35 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008)
POULTRY OPERATIONS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING POULTRY OPERATION. A poultry operation in place and operating on
the date this subchapter becomes effective.
   NEW POULTRY OPERATION. A poultry operation in place and operating after the
date this subchapter becomes effective.
   POULTRY ANIMAL UNIT. One hundred and twenty-five chickens.
   POULTRY OPERATION. Any activity involving the housing and/or raising of
poultry in excess of 16 poultry animal units.
   RURAL COMMUNITY. Communities recognized as rural communities in the adopted
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. KOC 840.1 (2004), passed 1-22-2004)
§ 90.51 NEW AND EXPANDED POULTRY OPERATION.
   In addition to complying with all federal and state regulations relating to
poultry operations, the following guidelines apply.
   (A)   A poultry operation shall be located no closer than 1,500 feet from
another poultry operation, as measured from the nearest poultry house on each
tract. A poultry operation shall be a minimum of 2,000 feet from a city limit
or the nearest rural community.
   (B)   A poultry operation with three or four poultry houses shall be a
minimum of 1,000 feet from the nearest dwelling not owned by a poultry producer
with tunnel ventilation fan outlets a minimum of 1,250 feet from the nearest
dwelling.
   (C)   A poultry operation with more than four poultry houses shall be a
minimum of 1,500 feet from the nearest dwelling not owned by the poultry
producer with tunnel ventilation fan outlets a minimum of 1,750 feet from the
nearest dwelling.
   (D)   Setbacks relating to dwellings, churches, and property lines may be
waived by the owner of these facilities by obtaining a sworn affidavit from the
owner that he or she is agreeable to the waiver.
   (E)   When a poultry producer entity decides to construct a poultry house in
the county, the producer shall apply to the County Engineer for a permit for
construction and/or operation of a poultry house 30 days prior to the beginning
of construction and/or operation. The application must contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the entity seeking the
permit and the same such information for anyone having the contractual
authority to direct the manner of construction of the poultry house, or the
manner in which poultry will be housed. Any such entity exercising such
authority shall ensure that the operator of the poultry facility has applied
for and been granted a permit;
      (2)   The location of the proposed facility, the acreage of the site, and
the number of houses proposed;
      (3)   Certification that all applicable portions of this subchapter will
be complied with;
      (4)   Number of chickens proposed for the facility;
      (5)   Any setback waivers obtained from surrounding property owners; and
      (6)   Verification reflecting distances where nearest homes are located
in relation to proposed poultry house, composters, and litter storage
facilities.
   (F)   The poultry operation must have a litter storage building and a
composter built on-site. The litter storage building shall be of sufficient
size to accommodate the normal volume of litter. The composter may be built in
the litter storage building or may be built separately.
   (G)   (1)   Poultry houses shall be situated on the farm so as to create the
least possible impact on neighboring homes and residents.
      (2)   This shall include, but is not limited to, directing exhaust fans
away from the nearest neighboring homes.
(Ord. KOC 840.1 (2004), passed 1-22-2004)
§ 90.52 NEW AND EXISTING POULTRY OPERATION.
   (A)   Poultry operations shall be limited to a maximum of six poultry houses
and 1,200 poultry units per 35-acre tract.
   (B)   If federal, state, or local setback restrictions are insufficient to
address the odors and dust on neighboring properties from the poultry farm, the
owner of the poultry operation may be required to provide a screening of
sufficient length and height to absorb and dissipate odors and dust.
   (C)   The operator of each poultry operation shall employ best management
practices to control odor and dust. Incineration shall not be employed as a
mortality disposal method.
   (D)   (1)   Poultry operations in compliance with this subchapter at the
time operations commence shall be exempt from subsequent setback violations due
to construction on adjoining parcels, including, but not limited to, the
building of new homes, churches, and schools.
      (2)   In addition, any such construction shall not prevent the otherwise
compliant expansion of the operation.
   (E)   (1)   Upon receipt of a complaint relating to a specific poultry
operation, the Solid Waste Engineer or his or her designee shall contact the
appropriate state regulatory agency regarding the complaint.
      (2)   The Solid Waste Engineer or his or her designee shall document the
complaint and take necessary follow up actions to ensure a proper resolution of
the complaint
(Ord. KOC 840.1 (2004), passed 1-22-2004)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.15 may be subject to the penalties set forth in KRS 258.990 and the
penalties set forth in KRS 525.125 and KRS 525.130.
      (2)   If none of the statutes cited provide a penalty for the violation
of any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.15, then such violation shall constitute a violation and shall, upon
conviction be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $500. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Any violation of §
90.06 shall be subject to penalties as defined in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above.
      (4)   Any violation of §
90.07 shall be subject to penalties as defined in divisions (B)(1).
      (5)   Any violation of §
90.08 shall be subject to penalties as defined in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above.
   (C)   (1)   Failure to comply after notice may result in a hearing before
the District Court and/or any other appropriate enforcement measures.
      (2)   Any owner who fails to comply with any provision of §§
90.30 through
90.35 shall be subject to a $50 fine for the first offense, $100 fine for the
second offense, and $200 fine for the third and subsequent offenses.
      (3)   Each day that the owner is not in compliance shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (D)   The owner of any dangerous dog to pay a fine if said animal is found
on property not owned or controlled by its owner, or not restrained in a secure
area per §
90.33(A) of $100 for the first offense, a fine of $150 for a second offense,
and $200 for a third or subsequent offense, plus any applicable reclamation
fee.
(Ord. KOC 1010.7 (2008), passed 2-26-2008; Ord. KOC 1010.6 (2013), passed 10-
24-2013)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of the Fire Prevention Code
   
91.02   Fire prevention proclamation; notifications
   
91.03   Open burning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF THE FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of the Commonwealth Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention
Code).
      (1)   The Commonwealth Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code), as
promulgated in 815 KAR 10:040 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction on the advice and recommendation of the
Commonwealth Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the
county.
      (2)   Copies of the Code book are available through the Department of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky
40601.
   (B)   Designated Local Code Official. The County Fire Chief, or his or her
authorized designee, be and hereby are designated as the Local Code Official to
enforce the standards of safety.
   (C)   Appeals process.
      (1)   Decisions made by the Local Code Official shall be appealable in
the same manner as the appeal process established for appeals of decisions of
the Commonwealth Fire Marshal set forth in KRS 227.330 through 227.410, and
other applicable law.
      (2)   For the purpose of the foregoing statutory provisions, the term
COMMONWEALTH FIRE MARSHAL shall also include within its meaning LOCAL CODE
OFFICIAL.
   (D)   Savings clause. Nothing in this section or in the Fire Prevention Code
hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in
any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or
causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby
repealed; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired, or affected by this section.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in full force
when passed, published, and recorded according to law.
(Ord. C.2 (94), passed 4-20-1994)
§ 91.02 FIRE PREVENTION PROCLAMATION; NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Division of Forestry of the commonwealth notifies the
county that an extraordinary fire hazard exists in the county as determined by
the national fire danger rating system and fire occurrence, the County Judge/
Executive is hereby authorized to proclaim, by executive order, that such a
condition exists in the county.
   (B)   No person shall, when a proclamation as provided for in division (A)
above has been issued, light or maintain an open fire at any location in the
county while such proclamation is in effect.
   (C)   Notice of the proclamation provided for in division (A) above shall be
published in the newspaper of the largest bona fide circulation in the county.
   (D)   This section shall become effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 132.1, passed 11-23-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to kindle or maintain
any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained on or in any public street, alley, or road or other public ground in
the county, but outside the corporate limits of the Cities of Owensboro and
Whitesville, without first having obtained a permit from the Chief of the
County Fire Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to kindle or maintain
any open fire or authorize such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private
land of less than one acre in the county, but outside the corporate limits of
the Cities of Owensboro and Whitesville, without first having obtained a permit
from the Chief of the County Fire Department; except the burning of leaves
shall be permitted on private land.
   (C)   Any permitted burning must be closely monitored and embers
extinguished before abandoning the fire.
   (D)   The Chief of the County Fire Department shall issue a permit pursuant
to this section upon a showing that the proposed fire will not endanger the
public health and safety.
   (E)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(R.8 (90), passed - -; Ord. KOC 310.1 (90), passed 9-11-1990) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
91.02(B) may, upon conviction, be fined from $50 to $500 for each violation of
§
91.02(B).
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
91.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $10
nor more than $100 for each violation.
(R.8 (90), passed - -; Ord. KOC 132.1, passed 11-23-1988; Ord. KOC 310.1 (90),
passed 9-11-1990)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Costs for road closings
Acceptance Into the County Road, Bridge, and Street System
   
92.15   Criteria for acceptance into the county road, bridge, and street system
   
92.16   Minimal qualifications for acceptance
   
92.17   Procedures for accepting road as county roads
   
92.18   Procedures for including roads into the county road system
   
92.19   Maintenance of county road
   
92.20   Effective date
Sidewalks
   
92.35   Repair of sidewalks
   
92.36   Installation of sidewalks
   
92.37   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 COSTS FOR ROAD CLOSINGS.
   (A)   Any applicant seeking to have any road, alley, and/or other public way
closed or abandoned pursuant to the provisions of KRS Ch. 178 shall, upon the
filing of a petition, tender to the County Treasurer the sum of $300.
   (B)   Each of the two viewers appointed by the Fiscal Court shall be paid
the sum of $25 for their services.
   (C)   The County Treasurer shall cause to be paid out of the proceeds of the
filing fee the advertising, viewers, and clerical costs.
   (D)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 620.26 (95), passed 4-26-1995)
ACCEPTANCE INTO THE COUNTY ROAD, BRIDGE, AND STREET SYSTEM
§ 92.15 CRITERIA FOR ACCEPTANCE INTO THE COUNTY ROAD, BRIDGE, AND STREET
SYSTEM.
   The County Fiscal Court establishes the following criteria and guidelines
for accepting roads into the county road, bridge, and street system.
   (A)   Any existing road that has not been taken into the county road system
which was constructed, or right-of-way dedicated with a proven visible
vehicular way prior to April 20, 1977, may be considered for inclusion into the
county road maintenance system and may qualify for county assistance.
   (B)   Any existing road that has not been taken into the county road system
which was constructed, or right-of-way dedicated after the adoption of the
public improvement specifications by the County Fiscal Court on April 20, 1977,
must meet the standards of the public improvement specifications in order to be
considered for inclusion in the county road system.
   (C)   Any existing road that has not been taken into the county road system
located in a subdivision with a recorded right-of-way in the County Clerk’s
office after April 20, 1977 cannot be considered for inclusion into the county
road system unless it meets the standard specifications of the public
improvement specification. It will be the responsibility of the developer/owner
of that subdivision to bring such roads to the standard specifications of the
public improvement specification as adopted by the County Fiscal Court on April
20, 1977. If the developer/owner fails to improve such road, residents of that
subdivision will be responsible to meet the public improvement specifications
unless the County Fiscal Court finds it in the public interest to approve
otherwise.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
§ 92.16MINIMAL QUALIFICATIONS FOR ACCEPTANCE.
   No road shall be considered for county road status unless said road shall
meet all of the following minimal qualifications.
   (A)   The proposed road shall currently service three or more residential
units.
   (B)   The proposed road shall be free of obstacles that may be hazardous to
the motoring public.
   (C)   The proposed road shall not be subject to water ponding for a
prolonged period of time during dry weather conditions.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
§ 92.17 PROCEDURES FOR ACCEPTING ROADS AS COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   There shall be a written request, with the consent of all property
owners submitted to the County Fiscal Court for any road to be considered for
inclusion into the county road maintenance system.
   (B)   The County Engineer will inspect the road and then submit to the
County Fiscal Court in a reasonable period of time a written report as to the
condition of the road and recommend whether the road can be considered for
inclusion.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 100.324, the County Fiscal Court will then forward the
proposal to the Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission for review in light
of the comprehensive plan and ask that the Owensboro Metropolitan Planning
Commission make a recommendation on the proposal for inclusion.
   (D)   The County Fiscal Court will then decide whether or not such road
should be accepted as a county road and considered for inclusion into the
county road maintenance system.
   (E)   If the County Fiscal Court agrees to accept said road as a county
road, then the applicant seeking to establish said road as a county road must
fully comply with the requirements set out in division (D) above; otherwise,
the road shall not be accepted by the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
§ 92.18 PROCEDURES FOR INCLUDING ROADS INTO THE COUNTY ROAD SYSTEM.
   (A)   After the road is considered for inclusion in the county road system,
the following minimum standard specifications should be satisfied or otherwise
approved by the County Engineer before the County Fiscal Court can approve such
road for inclusion:
      (1)   Sixty feet of right-of-way or as approved by the County Fiscal
Court;
      (2)   Eighteen feet of minimum width of road pavement with two feet of
gravel shoulders and 22 feet for gravel road or as approved by the County
Fiscal Court;
      (3)   Shall meet the minimum requirements of the City of Owensboro public
improvement specifications for:
         (a)   Minimum and maximum acceptable road grade and pavement
thickness;
         (b)   Vertical and horizontal site distance; and
         (c)   Intersection configurations.
      (4)   Proposed roads shall have a drainage system which allows water
runoff to drain away in a fashion that shall not interfere with or add to a
drainage problem in the area surrounding the road;
      (5)   Proposed roads shall have road side ditches of slopes not steeper
than 2:1 or flatter than 10:1 and shall have sufficient size cross drains which
carries water from one side to the other if needed; and
      (6)   Existing utilities shall be properly relocated at the landowner’s
expense, if needed, to allow for improvement and future expansion.
   (B)   After work is performed to bring the road to the minimum standards of
this subchapter and all costs that are the responsibility of the property
owners are paid or the financial obligations are agreed upon, the County
Engineer will recommend approval to the County Fiscal Court, subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   All legal documents (if needed) such as easement, right-of-way,
plans, and the like, shall be prepared by an authorized and licensed person at
the property owner’s expense.
      (2)   There shall be available property from all property owners with
sufficient size to meet minimum county rights-of-way.
      (3)   The County Fiscal Court will decide on the type of maintenance for
such road. At no time shall the residents of that road dictate or impose on the
County Fiscal Court the level of service it should maintain.
      (4)   The road will be inspected by the County Engineer and prioritized
according to current conditions and amount of upgrades necessary to meet the
minimum standards. Roads with the most traffic, highest number of residences,
and requiring the least amount of work will be given the highest priority for
inclusion.
      (5)   The County Engineer will recommend the degree of upgrade including
paving, base improvements, initial surfacing, resurfacing, shoulders, and
culverts. Certain work may be performed by the county.
      (6)   The County Fiscal Court may allow property owners a method to
finance payment for the road construction materials.
      (7)   It will be placed on the appropriate list for the future
maintenance including rocking, surfacing, or resurfacing. It will not be given
priority over any road simply because it is a new road.
      (8)   The County Fiscal Court will then amend Ordinance KOC 620.15 (88)
relating to the establishment of the county road, bridge, and street system.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
§ 92.19 MAINTENANCE OF COUNTY ROAD.
   Any road approved as a county road and accepted into the county road system
shall be maintained at the same maintenance level unless modified by subsequent
action and authority of the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
§ 92.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 620.33 (2000), passed 10-24-2000)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.35 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   The County Engineer is designated as an agent for the county to administer
all sidewalk projects under this subchapter, within the following guidelines.
   (A)   (1)   The county shall notify the owner(s) of property abutting any
public sidewalk in the county, outside the corporate limits of the cities of
Owensboro and Whitesville, when repair or reconstruction of the sidewalk
becomes necessary to maintain it in a reasonably safe condition for the use by
the public.
      (2)   The notice shall inform owner(s) of necessary repairs and request
that the owner(s) complete the work within a reasonable time.
      (3)   If owner(s) fail to begin necessary repairs within ten days after
receiving notice, the county may complete the necessary repairs at the owner(s)
expense.
      (4)   After completing repairs, the county shall send the owner(s) a
statement of the cost to repair.
      (5)   If the owner(s) fail to pay costs to repair within 30 days after
the date of the notice, the County Treasurer shall file in the County Clerk’s
office, a statement of the costs incurred by the county which shall become a
lawful lien against the property and shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per
annum until paid.
   (B)   The county shall furnish and pay for cement concrete material for
approved sidewalk repair, if and only if, property owner(s) pay all other costs
necessary to complete the sidewalk project.
   (C)   The county shall not furnish materials for sidewalks outside of public
rights-of-way.
   (D)   The county may furnish concrete material to reconstruct sidewalks to
existing width, but not less than four feet.
   (E)   The county shall not furnish concrete to construct or reconstruct
driveway aprons (that portion of a driveway entrance or exit from the sidewalk
to the street curb).
   (F)   The County Engineer shall establish and enforce requirements for
permits, bonds and construction specifications.
   (G)   (1)   When a property owner(s) receives a notice to repair a sidewalk
or requests the County Engineer to assess proposed sidewalk work, the County
Engineer shall estimate the theoretical volume of concrete needed to complete
the work.
      (2)   The county shall pay an amount equal to the cost of the theoretical
volume of concrete at the county’s contract rate. The County Engineer shall
furnish this information to the owner(s). The actual payment by the county
shall be based on field measurements as per division (H) of this section.
   (H)   The county shall base its payment to owner(s)/contractor for cement
concrete upon measurements and calculations by the County Engineer using
theoretical volumes required for the proposed work. In calculating the
theoretical volume, the county shall use sidewalk thickness of four inches,
except it shall use a six-inch thickness for sidewalks crossing driveways. The
county may add up to 5% of the theoretical volume for normal construction
variation and waste. Property owner(s) shall pay for all cement used over and
above the calculated volume.
   (I)   Owner(s) shall use cement concrete only from the county’s concrete
materials contractor for work approved under this subchapter. The county shall
pay its contractor at the county’s contract price. The owner may purchase
additional concrete from any vendor, but the owner(s) shall pay the vendor.
   (J)   The county shall determine if the condition of a sidewalk requires
repair and or reconstruction.
   (K)   The County Engineer shall determine and resolve any questions or
circumstances regarding the sidewalk work performed under this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 620.7, passed 7-15-1980; Ord. KOC 620.7 (2015), passed 4-2-2015)
§ 92.36 INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court designates the County Engineer as its agent to
administer all sidewalk projects under this subchapter within the following
guidelines:
      (1)   Owner(s) shall install all sidewalks outside the corporate limits
of the cities of Owensboro and Whitesville within five years from the date of
its final approved plat and according to the requirements existing at the time
of sidewalk installation of the Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission and
Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   If owner(s) of the land abutting such sidewalk fail to install the
sidewalk, the county may install the sidewalk at the property owner(s) expense.
      (3)   Owner(s) may petition the County Engineer for a reasonable
extension of time to install the sidewalk.
      (4)   If the owner(s) fail to pay the costs of installation within 30
days after demand, the County Treasurer may file in the County Clerk’s office a
lien of the costs incurred by the county; that amount shall constitute a lawful
lien against such property and shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum
until paid.
   (B)   The owner(s)/developer(s) is responsible for all costs associated with
sidewalk installation including concrete.
(Ord. KOC 620.7 (2015), passed 4-2-2015)
§ 92.37 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 620.7, passed 7-15-1980; Ord. KOC 620.7 (2015), passed 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 93: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Duties and powers of the Solid Waste Coordinator
   
93.03   Public nuisances
   
93.04   Weeds, rubbish and garbage
   
93.05   Dilapidated and discarded items
   
93.06   Parking, watercraft, trailers, motor homes and vehicles
   
93.07   Unsafe structures and equipment
   
93.08   Notices and orders
   
93.09   Enforcement
   
93.10   Board of Appeals
   
93.11   Complaints
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Solid Waste, see
Ch. 50
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, any facility for
the production of crops, livestock, equine, poultry, livestock products,
poultry products, horticultural products, and any generally accepted,
reasonable, and prudent method for the operation of a farm to obtain a monetary
profit that complies with applicable laws and administrative regulations, and
is performed in a reasonable and prudent manner customary among farm operators.
Agricultural practices protected by this section shall include, but not be
limited to, fertilizer application, the application of pesticides or herbicides
that have been approved by public authority, planting, cultivating, mowing,
harvesting, land clearing, and constructing farm buildings, roads, lakes and
ponds associated with a farming operation, as described in KRS 413.072.
   BOAT TRAILER. Any trailer designed or used to transport boats or watercraft.
   CAMPING TRAILER (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE). Any vehicle with collapsible sides
containing sleeping quarters; may contain bathing and cooking facilities;
designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure transportable in one or more
sections, which:
      (1)   Is eight body feet or more in width and 40 body feet or more in
length when in the traveling mode;
      (2)   Has 320 or more square feet when erected on site;
      (3)   Is built on a permanent chassis;
      (4)   Is designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent
foundation, when connected to the required utilites;
      (5)   Includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems; and
      (6)   May be used as a place of residence, business, profession or trade
by the owner, lessee or their assigns, and may consist of one or more units
that can be attached or joined together to comprise an integral unit or
condominium structure.
   MOTOR HOME (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE). Vehicular unit designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use; built on or
permanently attached to a self- propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis
cab or van which is an integral part of the completed vehicle.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having legal or
equitable interest in the property, or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of such
person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic
entities are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor home.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or any portion of it.
   TRAILER. Vehicle without motor power designed to carry property, wholly on
its own structure, capable of being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   WATERCRAFT. Any floating device designed for transportation over water.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.02 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Daviess County Property
Maintenance Enforcement” chapter.
   (B)   The Daviess County Fiscal Court designates the Solid Waste Coordinator
as the county official responsible for enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Upon a verified complaint, the Solid Waste Coordinator, or his/her
designee, in consultation with his/her supervisor, shall determine when any
particular property violates this chapter by creating a public nuisance and/or
creating a danger to the health, safety or welfare of people in Daviess County.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make all of the required
inspections or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals.
      (2)   Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a
responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual.
      (3)   The Solid Waste Coordinator may engage any expert opinion necessary
to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of
the Daviess County Fiscal Court.
   (E)   Right of entry. Subject to any constitutional limitations or
restrictions:
      (1)   When necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and the Solid Waste Coordinator has reasonable cause to believe
that a structure or a condition on a premises violates this chapter, the Solid
Waste Coordinator may enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to
inspect or perform the duties imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises is occupied, the Solid Waste
Coordinator shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry.
      (3)   If such structure or premises is unoccupied or abandoned, the Solid
Waste Coordinator shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, owner's
authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the structure or
premises and request entry.
      (4)   If refused entry, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall have recourse
to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
   (F)   Identification. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall carry proper
identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of
duties under this chapter.
   (G)   Notices and orders. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue all
necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   Department records. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall keep official
records of all business and activities of the department specified in the
provisions of this chapter. Such records shall be retained in the official
records for the period required for retention of public records.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Public nuisance shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   The physical condition or occupancy of any property regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
   (B)   Any physical condition or occupancy of any property or appurtenances
considered an attractive nuisance to minors, including, but not limited to,
abandoned wells, abandoned swimming pools, shafts, basements, excavations and
unsafe fences or structures;
   (C)   Any property that has unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities;
   (D)   Any property that is unsafe for human habitation;
   (E)   Any property that is in imminent danger of becoming a fire or other
hazard, or is manifestly unsafe or unsecure so as to pose an imminent threat or
danger to life, limb or property;
   (F)   Any property from which the plumbing, electrical, heating or other
facilities required by an applicable code have been removed or from which
utilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective or
the required precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
   (G)   Any property that is unsanitary, littered with rubbish or garbage or
has uncontrolled weeds growing on it;
   (H)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that is in a
state of dilapidation, disrepair, deterioration or decay, faulty construction,
overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, damaged by fire to the extent that it
is uninhabitable, in danger of collapse or failure or dangerous to anyone on or
near the property;
   (I)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that has been
abandoned for a minimum continuous period of six months, thereby creating an
attractive nuisance to children and/or which tends to diminish the value of
adjacent properties; and
   (J)   (1)   Agricultural operations, as defined in §
93.01, shall not be or become a public or private nuisance under the provisions
of this chapter if the agricultural operation existed and operated before this
chapter unless the agricultural operation met the requirements of a public or
private nuisance defined by statute, ordinance or common law before the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   If the agricultural operation changes its method of operation or
changes its operating conditions after the effective date of this chapter, the
changed condition or method may be subject to this chapter if the agricultural
operation:
         (a)   Changes its location;
         (b)   Adds a new location or operation on a non-contiguous property;
or
         (c)   Creates a nuisance, as defined by this chapter by the negligent
operation of any agricultural operation or its appurtenances.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.04 WEEDS, RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparing, cooking and consuming of food.
      RUBBISH. Paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather,
tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass,
crockery and dust and other similar materials and the residue from the burning
of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials.
      WEEDS. All grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or
shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and
gardens or agricultural crops.
   (B)   No person or entity shall maintain any lot or acreage located within
100 feet of the boundary of any residential, commercial or professional
property in Daviess County but outside the corporate limits of the City of
Owensboro on which garbage or rubbish accumulates or excessive amounts of weeds
are allowed to grow above ten inches. Any such acreage or lot on which such
garbage, rubbish or weeds are allowed to remain for seven consecutive days is
declared a public nuisance and dangerous to the health, welfare, safety and
convenience of the people in the county.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.05 DILAPIDATED AND DISCARDED ITEMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DILAPIDATED ITEM. Any item in a state of disrepair, junk, a
dismantled or stripped vehicle, or parts, any item which damaged, in a state of
decay or ruin, or unable to be reasonably used for its intended purpose without
substantial repair or restoration. This definition includes but is not limited
to any motor vehicle, boat, equipment, home appliance, and furniture, or parts
that is in a dilapidated or inoperable condition and which is left in such
condition continuously for more than seven consecutive days.
      (2)   DISCARDED ITEM. Any item which is cast off, set aside as having no
particular use and includes, but is not limited to, motor vehicles, auto body
parts, tires, boats, home appliances and furniture in a dilapidated or
apparently inoperable condition and/or any item left in open storage or
discarded on private property continuously for more than seven consecutive
days. This definition shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Any discarded item or part which is enclosed within a building,
such as a garage or other fully enclosed accessory building.
         (b)   Any discarded item not visible from an adjacent or abutting
property owner, street, road or public property.
         (c)   Any discarded item stored on private property in a lawful manner
in connection with the licensed business of auto body, auto repair, dismantler,
vehicle dealer, and junk or salvage yard, both of which must be duly licensed
by the state, provided that outside storage of discarded items remain within a
privacy fence or dumpster area and not on the grass or yard.
         (d)   This exception shall not authorize the maintenance of a public
or private nuisance as defined under provision of law other than this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place, leave, deposit or keep discarded and/or
dilapidated items on any private or public property in Daviess County, but
outside the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro. Such dilapidated and
discarded items are declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.06 PARKING, WATERCRAFT, TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IMPROVED SURFACE. A surface consisting of gravel, asphalt or concrete of
at least the length and width of the object sitting upon it.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the
public streets for reasons including but not limited to being wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, under
major overhaul including body work; or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
      UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that does not have a current
license.
   (B)   It is unlawful and declared a public nuisance to park:
      (1)   An inoperable motor vehicle outdoors on any public or private
property of less than one acre in Daviess County outside the corporate limits
of the City of Owensboro continuously for more than seven consecutive days. A
motor vehicle shall not at any time undergo major overhaul, including body
work, unless performed inside a structure or enclosed area designed for such
purposes or is not visible to any neighbors or the motoring public. Occasional
minor repair or maintenance of a personal motor vehicle is permitted.
      (2)   More than one unlicensed motor vehicle outdoors on any public or
private property of less than one acre in Daviess County outside the corporate
limits of the City of Owensboro continuously for more than seven consecutive
days.
      (3)   Any boat trailer, camping trailer, watercraft, trailer, motor home
or motor vehicle (including one unlicensed motor vehicle) on an unimproved
surface on public or private property of less than one acre in Daviess County
outside the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro continuously for more
than seven consecutive days.
      (4)   Division (B)(3) of this section shall not apply to any boat
trailer, camping trailer, watercraft, trailer, motor home or vehicle parked
within a privacy fence, or wholly contained in a garage or approved storage
building on property of less than one acre.
      (5)   Farm equipment, trucks, (except small panel trucks or pickup
trucks), utility trailers, truck trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, or
buses on any public way in any residential section continuously for more than
three hours.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.07 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General. When the Solid Waste Coordinator finds a structure or
equipment unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found dangerous
to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the
structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in
the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so
damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty
construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is
possible.
   (C)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (D)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy when the Solid Waste Coordinator finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
   (E)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be occupied by more persons than permitted by law, or was erected,
altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (F)   Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this chapter, any
structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects
described below shall be considered dangerous:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings.
      (2)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
      (3)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance damaged by
fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism
or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to collapse partially
or completely, or to become detached or dislodged.
      (4)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior lacking sufficient strength or stability, or not
anchored, attached or fastened in place making it capable of resisting natural
or artificial loads at least equal to one and one-half the original designed
value.
      (5)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to collapse partially or completely, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way.
      (6)   The building or structure, or any portion is clearly unsafe for its
use and occupancy.
      (7)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to minors who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or enables persons to resort to the building or structure
for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
      (8)   Any building or structure that has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire
ordinance of the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as
to present either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other
threat to life and safety.
      (9)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical
or plumbing system, or otherwise, determined by the Solid Waste Coordinator to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that will
likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (10)   Any building or structure, lacking sufficient or proper fire-
resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical system, fuel
connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is determined
by the Solid Waste Coordinator to threaten life or health of public or
occupants.
      (11)   Any portion of a building remaining on a site after the demolition
or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned leaving such building or portion an attractive nuisance
or hazard to the public.
   (G)   Closing vacant structures.
      (1)   If a structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and
occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the Solid Waste
Coordinator is authorized to post a placard condemning the premises and
ordering the structure closed to prevent it from remaining or becoming an
attractive public nuisance.
      (2)   If the owner or owner's authorized agent fails to close up the
premises within the time specified in the order, the Solid Waste Coordinator
shall close the premises and secure it through any available public agency or
by contract or arrangement by private persons; owner shall pay the cost or the
cost shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall become a lien upon such real estate and shall be collected by
any other legal method.
   (H)   Authority to disconnect service utilities.
      (1)   The Solid Waste Coordinator may disconnect utility service to the
building, structure or system regulated by this chapter.
      (2)   If necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property,
the Solid Waste Coordinator may disconnect the utility service if the utility
connection has been made without the required approval.
      (3)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall notify the serving utility and,
when possible, the owner or owner's authorized agent and occupant of the
building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to
taking such action.
      (4)   If not notified prior to disconnection, the Solid Waste Coordinator
shall notify, in writing as soon as practical the owner, owners authorized
agent or occupant of the building structure or service system.
      (5)   Notice. Whenever the Solid Waste Coordinator condemns a structure
or equipment, the Coordinator shall post the notice in a conspicuous place in
or about the structure affected and serve the notice on the owner, owner's
authorized agent or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the
condemned equipment.
      (6)   Placarding. If the owner, owner's authorized agent or person
responsible fails to comply with the notice provisions within the time given,
the Solid Waste Coordinator shall post on the premises or on defective
equipment a placard bearing the word "Condemned" and a statement of the
penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard.
      (7)   Placard removal. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall remove the
condemnation placard when the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based are eliminated.
      (8)   Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without
the approval of the Solid Waste Coordinator shall be subject to the penalties
provided by this chapter.
      (9)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and
placarded by the Solid Waste Coordinator shall be vacated as ordered by the
Solid Waste Coordinator.
      (10)   Any person who occupies a premises placarded or operates placarded
equipment, and any owner, owner's authorized agent or person responsible for
the premises who allows anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded
equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this chapter.
      (11)   Abatement methods. The owner, owner's authorized agent, operator
or occupant of a building, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the Solid
Waste Coordinator shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe
conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved
corrective action.
      (12)   Record. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall file a report of the
unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the
nature of the unsafe condition.
   (I)   Emergency measures.
      (1)   Imminent danger. If the Solid Waste Coordinator, finds reasonable
cause to believe that a structure or equipment is in imminent danger of failure
or collapse or a building or structure endangers life, or when any structure or
part of a structure falls and life is endangered by the occupation of the
structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the building
occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of explosives,
explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials,
or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Solid Waste Coordinator
may order and require the occupants to vacate the premises.
      (2)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall post at each entrance to such
structure a notice: "This structure is unsafe and occupying it is prohibited by
the Solid Waste Coordinator." It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such
structure except to secure the structure, make the required repairs, remove the
hazardous condition or demolish the structure.
      (3)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, when, in the opinion of the Solid Waste Coordinator, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall order the
necessary work done which may include boarding openings to render such
structure temporarily safe even if the legal procedures described in this
chapter are not instituted; and shall take other action necessary to meet such
emergency.
      (4)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Solid Waste
Coordinator in consultation with the County Engineer, may temporarily close
structures and close, or request the authority with jurisdiction to close,
sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and
prohibit the use of them.
      (5)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Solid
Waste Coordinator shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the
required work as expeditiously as possible.
      (6)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the Daviess County Fiscal Court, which costs
Daviess County Fiscal Court may recover from the owner as provided in §
93.09.
      (7)   The County Attorney may institute appropriate action against the
owner of the premises or owner's authorized agent where the unsafe structure is
or was located to recover the costs of the emergency repairs.
      (8)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order immediately. Any affected person may petition the Appeals Board
for a hearing on the amount of the necessary repairs.
   (J)   Demolition.
      (1)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall order the owner or owner's
authorized agent to demolish and remove any structure, which in the Solid Waste
Coordinator's opinion is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of
repair that it is dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy.
      (2)   If it is unreasonable to repair the structure, or if such structure
is capable of being made safe by repairs, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall
order the owner or owner's authorized agent to repair and make it safe and
sanitary, or to board up and hold for future repair or demolish at owner's
option.
      (3)   If normal construction of any structure ends for a period of more
than two years, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall order the owner or owner's
authorized agent to demolish and remove such structure, or board up until
future repair. Boarding the building up for future repair shall not extend
beyond one year, unless approved in writing by the building official.
      (4)   Notices and orders. Notices and orders shall comply with §
93.10.
      (5)   If the owner of a premises or owner's authorized agent fails to
comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the Solid Waste
Coordinator shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either
through an available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private
persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against
the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall become a lien
upon such real estate.
      (6)   Salvage materials.
         (a)   When the Solid Waste Coordinator orders any structure demolished
and removed, the Fiscal Court or other designated officer may sell the salvage
and valuable materials.
         (b)   The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of
such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such
sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted,
for the person entitled or subject to any order of a court.
         (c)   If no surplus remains, the report shall so state.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.08 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Solid Waste Coordinator determines that there has been a
violation of this chapter or has grounds to believe that a violation occurred,
notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in this section to the person
responsible for the violation as specified in this chapter. Notices for
condemnation procedures shall also comply with this section.
   (B)   Form. Such notice shall comply with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time (at least
seven days) to make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling
unit or structure into compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   Include a statement that if the owner, occupant, or agent cannot
complete the repairs in the time specified, then the owner, occupant or agent
should contact the Solid Waste Coordinator to discuss a possible extension of
time in which to comply;
      (6)   Inform the property owner or owner's authorized agent of the right
to appeal; and
      (7)   Include a statement that the Solid Waste Coordinator may file a
lien upon the real estate as provided in §
93.09.
   (C)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to
the last known address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure affected by such notice.
   (D)   Unauthorized tampering. No person shall mutilate, destroy, or tamper
with or remove without authorization from the Solid Waste Coordinator any
signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the Solid Waste Coordinator.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a violator, owner, operator, occupant or agent fails to comply with
the requirements of any notice issued pursuant to this chapter, the county,
through the Solid Waste Coordinator or other agent, may remove or abate the
conditions creating the violation described in the written notice, and the
costs of such removal or abatement shall become the personal liability of the
owner or owners, and shall constitute a lien against the real property upon
which such cost was incurred.
   (B)   The Solid Waste Coordinator may enforce the terms of this chapter by
enforcing the terms of a notice to the violator, owner, occupant and agent
within 30 days of the notice or within the time specified in the notice.
However, the county may allow up to six months before requiring the Solid Waste
Coordinator to remove or abate a nuisance pursuant the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Solid Waste Coordinator of the county shall keep an accurate
record of the cost, including labor and materials, of the work done to abate or
remove the conditions of any nuisance specified in a written notice, and shall
file with the County Treasurer a certified statement of such costs, together
with a statement of compliance with the notice provisions of §
93.08.
   (D)   The County Treasurer shall enter upon a book provided for that purpose
the amount of the cost of abating or removing the conditions creating a
nuisance, as certified by the Solid Waste Coordinator, and shall prepare and
mail a bill for said amount to the last known address of the owner as it
appears on the current property tax roll by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (E)   If 30 days following the date of the billing the bill remains unpaid,
the County Treasurer shall file in the County Clerk's office, a statement of
the costs of labor and materials incurred by the county, that amount shall
constitute a good, lawful and valued lien against the property, and the same
shall constitute a notice to all persons from the time of its recording.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.10 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Daviess County Property Maintenance Board of Appeals shall be a public
agency as defined in KRS 61.805 of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act and KRS
61.870. It shall have the following purpose, membership and structure:
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Daviess County Property Maintenance Code
Board of Appeals is to hear appeals by any qualified party aggrieved by any
decision of the Solid Waste Coordinator/Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Board shall be appointed by the Daviess County Judge/Executive,
with the approval of the Daviess County Fiscal Court, and shall consist of at
least three but not more than five persons qualified by experience and training
to decide matters pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees
of Daviess County Fiscal Court.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall hear an appeal in a case in which he
or she has a personal, professional or financial interest.
      (3)   The Judge/Executive, with approval of the Fiscal Court, may appoint
at least two alternate members who the Chair of the Board may call to hear
appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member.
      (4)   The Board shall select one member annually to serve as Chairperson.
      (5)   The Judge/Executive shall designate a qualified person to serve as
secretary to the Board. The secretary shall file a detailed record of all Board
proceedings in the Judge/Executive's office.
      (6)   Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for serving.
   (C)   Structure of the Board.
      (1)   The Daviess County Property Maintenance Code Board of Appeals shall
consist of three members, one from each Commissioner's district.
      (2)   The initial members shall be appointed within 30 days of the
effective date of the adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   The members shall serve for a term of three years, except that with
of the members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of
one year; one member shall be appointed for a term of two years; and one member
shall be appointed for a term of three years.
      (4)   Thereafter, all appointed members shall serve for a term of three
years. After the initial staggered term of the first Board appointments, no
member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
   (D)   Powers, authority and duties of the Board. The Daviess County Property
Maintenance Board of Appeals shall have all powers, authorities and duties in
this chapter.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a notice, order or decision of the Solid
Waste Coordinator/Code Enforcement Officer may appeal that notice, order or
decision to the Daviess County Property Maintenance Code Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The aggrieved party shall file the appeal, in writing, with the
Daviess County Judge/Executive's office, 212 St. Ann Street, Room 202,
Owensboro, Kentucky 42303.
      (3)   The petition of appeal shall be filed within 20 days after the
Solid Waste Coordinator/Code Enforcement Officer served the aggrieved party
with the notice, order or decision.
      (4)   The petition of appeal shall be based upon a claim that the Solid
Waste Coordinator/Code Enforcement Officer incorrectly interpreted the
ordinance, the ordinance provisions do not apply fully or the ordinance
requirements are satisfied adequately by other means.
      (5)   After receiving a petition of appeal the Board Chair shall send a
notice setting a meeting of the Board within 20 days of the date the aggrieved
party filed the appeal.
      (6)   The Board shall conduct its hearings in the Daviess Fiscal
Courtroom, 212 St. Ann Street, Owensboro, Kentucky 42303.
      (7)   Board hearings shall be open to the public.
      (8)   The Board shall permit the appellant, appellant's representative,
the Code Official and any other person whose interests are affected to be
heard.
      (9)   Board quorum shall consist of a minimum of two-thirds of the Board
members.
      (10)   The Board shall adopt and make available to the public the hearing
procedures.
      (11)   The hearing procedures shall not require strict compliance with
the rules of evidence, but shall require that the Board hear only relevant
evidence.
      (12)   The Board or the appellant may request the Board postpone a
hearing if the full Board cannot hear the appeal.
      (13)   The Board may modify or reverse the Code Official's decision only
if a majority of the total number of appointed members concurs.
      (14)   The Board shall record its decision and provide a copy to the
appellant and the Code Official.
      (15)   The Code Official shall act immediately in accordance with the
Board's decision.
      (16)   Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by the decision of the
Daviess County Property Maintenance Code Board of Appeals may, within 30 days,
initiate an action in Daviess Circuit Court to contest the decision of the
Board.
      (17)   Upon request by the appellant and the payment of any cost, the
Daviess County Property Maintenance Code Board of Appeals shall file a complete
transcript of its proceedings, including any findings of fact, conclusions of
law, and its decision, filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
      (18)   The case shall be docketed in the Circuit Court and adjudicated
according to state law.
      (19)   Appeals of notice and order (except imminent danger notices) shall
stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the Board hears and decides
the appeal.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.11 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   To the extent allowed by law, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall
maintain the identity of those person(s) who initiate complaints concerning
violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall have no obligation to pursue
anonymous complaints concerning violation of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Solid Waste Coordinator observes alleged violations of related
regulations enforced by other agencies, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall refer
the related alleged violation to the proper regulatory or enforcement agency.
   (D)   The Solid Waste Coordinator, member of the Board of Appeals or
employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the
jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this chapter or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not be
rendered civilly or criminally liable personally, and is relieved from all
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result
of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500, at
the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
in accordance with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. KOC 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 94: UNSOLICITED WRITTEN MATERIALS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Placement of unsolicited written material
   
94.03   Presumption
   
94.04   United States Postal Service - exempt
   
94.05   Civil offense
   
94.06   Civil penalty
   
94.07   Board of Appeals
   
94.08   Harmony with Property Maintenance Code
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITATION OFFICER. A person authorized by state law or local ordinance to
issue a citation for a violation of this chapter. The code enforcement official
of the Property Maintenance Code, KOC 1-2016, is authorized to issue citations.
   FRONT DOOR. The street-facing entrance(s) to a principal structure. In the
event no door faces the street, then any other door of a principal structure
nearest the street shall be considered a front door for purposes of this
chapter.
   PORCH. An exterior appendage to a principal structure leading to a doorway,
including any stairway attached thereto.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land including any structures,
driveways, or other impervious surfaces thereon.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure, or combination of structures of primary
importance on the premises, and that contains the primary use associated with
the premises. The primary use is characterized by identifying the main activity
taking place on the premises.
   UNSOLICITED WRITTEN MATERIALS.  Any written materials delivered to any
premises without the express invitation or permission, in writing or otherwise,
by the owner, occupant, or lessee of such premises.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.02 PLACEMENT OF UNSOLICITED WRITTEN MATERIALS.
   (A)   Unsolicited written materials delivered to a premises shall be placed:
      (1)   On a porch, if one exists, nearest the front door;
      (2)   So that such materials are securely attached to the front door;
      (3)   Through a mail slot on the front door or principal structure, if
one exists, as permitted by the United States Postal Service Domestic Mail
Manual, Section 508 Recipient Services, Subsection 3.1.2;
      (4)   Between the exterior front door, if one exists and is unlocked, and
the interior front door;
      (5)   Where permitted, in a distribution box located on or adjacent to
the premises; or
      (6)   Personally with the owner, occupant, and/or lessee of the premises.
   (B)   Notwithstanding above, an owner, lessee, or occupant maintains the
right to restrict entry to his or her premises.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.03 PRESUMPTION.
   Unsolicited written materials placed at a premises create a rebuttable
presumption that the materials were placed at the premises by the owner, agent,
manager, and/or authorized distributor of the business, product, good, service,
message, or idea, which is being advertised, promoted, endorsed, or conveyed in
such materials.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.04 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE - EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the United States Postal
Service.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.05 CIVIL OFFENSE.
   Any placement of unsolicited written materials in areas on or adjacent to a
premises other than as set forth in § 94.02 shall be a violation of this
chapter, classified as a civil offense, and may be enforced by issuance of a
civil citation by a citation officer, consistent with Sections 2, 8 and 9 of
the Daviess County Fiscal Court Property Maintenance Code, or as it may be
amended.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.06 CIVIL PENALTY.
   The civil penalty for each violation of this chapter shall be a maximum of
$200 per violation, but not less than $25.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.07 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals established in Section 10 of the Daviess County
Property Maintenance Code shall be the entity having authority to determine
whether there has been a violation of this chapter if an aggrieved party files
an appeal.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
§ 94.08 HARMONY WITH PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   This chapter is to be interpreted as being in harmony with the Daviess
County Fiscal Court Property Maintenance Code, KOC 1-2016.
(Ord. KOC 870.01 (2024), passed 12-5-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND FEES
      
111.   PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS; SECOND-HAND ARTICLES
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Alcoholic beverage licenses
   
110.02   Nudity in establishments licensed to sell alcohol
Occupational Licenses
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Occupational license application required
   
110.17   Occupational license fee payment required
   
110.18   Apportionment
   
110.19   Employers to withhold
   
110.20   Returns required
   
110.21   Extensions
   
110.22   Refunds
   
110.23   Federal audit provisions
   
110.24   Administrative provisions
   
110.25   Confidential information
   
110.26   Use of occupational license tax
   
110.27   Effective date
Insurance Companies
   
110.35   Definitions
   
110.36   License tax; Fire Protection Sinking Fund
   
110.37   Audit of accounts
   
110.38   Insurance license fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES.
   (A)   Effective date of the license. The effective date of all county
alcoholic beverage licenses shall coincide with the effective date of the state
licenses for the specified alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   Prohibited activities without a license. No person shall engage in any
of the following businesses or activities within the county or outside the
corporate city limits of the City of Owensboro, unless he or she obtains the
required license from the county:
      (1)   Retail sale of malt beverages by the package or drink;
      (2)   Sale of wine at a restaurant facility with a minimum seating
capacity of 50 or more people at tables and which receive 50% or more of its
gross annual income from its dining facilities from the sale of food;
      (3)   Retail sale of wine or distilled spirits by the package or drink;
      (4)   Activities requiring a special temporary license;
      (5)   Private clubs which traffic in distilled spirits, wine, or malt
beverages for consumption on the premises;
      (6)   Retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages by a
caterers, defined in KRS 243.033, and the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
      (7)   Retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from more
than one bar, counter, or similar location under a single retail drink license;
      (8)   Sunday sales of wine, distilled spirits, and/or malt beverages by
the drink in qualified hotels, motels, and restaurants under KRS 244.290 and
KRS 244.480; or
      (9)   Any other business or activity involving the sale of alcoholic
beverages requiring a license under the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Annual county fees.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2014, the County Fiscal Court sets the
following annual county fees for properly qualified applicants for the
following alcoholic beverage licenses.
License Classification License fee
License Classification                                             License fee
Caterer’s license, per annum                                     $300
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and $840
malt beverages), per annum
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and  $840
malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum          $75
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license to holder of a non- $50
quota type 4 malt beverage drink license
Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, $600
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, $600
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, $300
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license to holder of a non-   $50
quota retail malt beverage package license
Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum     $75
Quota retail drink license, per annum                              $600
Quota retail package license, per annum                            $600
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                     $300
Special temporary license, per event (for profit)                  $166.66
Special temporary license, per event (nonprofit)                   $0
 
      (2)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall
be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at
the same premises.
   (D)   Application requirements.
      (1)   The person applying for the license issued under this section shall
pay for the license. The county shall issue the license only in the applicant’s
name, and no other person shall pay for any license issued under this section.
In addition to all other penalties provided in this section, a violation of
this division (D) shall revoke the license of the applicant and of the person
paying for another’s license.
      (2)   Applicants shall pay the license fees provided in division (C)(1)
above when tendering their application. If the county or the Alcoholic Beverage
Commission revokes, cancels, or suspends any license for any reason, the
licensee shall forfeit all claims to a refund of any portion of the license fee
paid by licensee.
      (3)   Applicants for a new license provided under division (C)(1) above
shall pay the full license fee if six months or more remain in the license
period. Applicants for a new license shall pay one-half the scheduled fee if
less than six months remain in the license period.
      (4)   The county may refund a pro rata portion of the licensee’s fees for
any year a licensee, authorized under this section, cannot conduct business for
the full term of the license period because the commonwealth changed the law,
permitting the licensee to conduct business under a license provided in
division (C) above.
      (5)   All fees from licenses issued under this section shall be collected
by the County Clerk and sent to the County Treasurer and deposited in the
county’s General Fund.
   (E)   Renewal date for licenses purchased in 2013. All annual county
alcoholic beverage licenses purchased in 2013 shall remain in full force and
effect until the expiration date, at which time the licenses may be renewed at
the rates set out in division (C)(1) above.
   (F)   Sales of alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   General sales. All premises for which a license has been granted by
the commonwealth and the county to sell distilled spirits, wine, and/or malt
beverages may remain open for business on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday, from 6:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. the following day
(prevailing time).
      (2)   Authorization for Sunday sales. All premises for which a license
has been granted by the state and county, to sell distilled spirits and wine
and/or malt beverages, may remain open for business on Sunday, from 11:00 a.m.
until 12:00 a.m. the following day (prevailing time).
      (3)   Premises whose primary business is not the sale of alcoholic
beverages may remain open for business during hours in which alcoholic
beverages are not allowed to be sold, so long as the licensee keeps all
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages in a locked or closed off area.
      (4)   Premises whose primary business is the sale of alcoholic beverages
by the drink or package must be, during the closing hours, closed to and vacant
of all customers and all persons except the licensee and his employees, who
shall be allowed on the premises only for business purposes not directly
related to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
      (5)   No alcoholic beverages of any kind may be sold on any other date,
time or occasion when prohibited by Federal or state law.
      (6)   In addition to required state licenses, all licensees desiring to
sell distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages on Sunday within the time
prescribed in division (F)(2), must purchase the appropriate licenses from the
County of Daviess, through the Daviess County Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator, for the Sunday sales, as required in this section.
      (7)   Rebuttable presumption. If any distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages are kept on the outside of the locked and closed-off department of
any licensed premises during any period of time in which the licensee is
prohibited by law from selling distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, a
rebuttable presumption shall arise that such distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages were kept on the outside of the locked and closed-off department with
the intention and for the purpose of sale in violation of the law and shall be
grounds for revocation or suspension of the license.
      (8)   Sunday sampling. Any licensed Kentucky distillery located in
Daviess County that has obtained a Kentucky sampling liquor license may serve
samples to visitors of legal drinking age provided the licensed Kentucky
distillery is located in wet territory. Sampling shall be permitted only on the
licensed premises during regular business hours and a distillery shall not
provide more than one and three-fourths ounces of samples per visitor per day.
      (9)   The times that samples may be served shall be limited to Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, from 6:00 a.m. until 2:00
a.m. the following day (prevailing time). For Sunday, said hours shall be from
11:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m.
      (10)   No visitor shall be charged for a sample obtained pursuant to
division (8) of this section.
      (11)   Sale of souvenir liquor packages at distillers. Any licensed
Kentucky distillery located in Daviess County that has a gift shop on its
premises may sell souvenir packages of distilled spirits at retail to
distillery visitors of legal drinking age, in quantities not to exceed an
aggregate of four and one-half liters per visitor per day.
      (12)   The sales referenced in division (11) above shall be permitted
only through the gift shop on the distiller's premises, and only if the
distillery is located in wet territory in Daviess County.
      (13)   The times that souvenir packages may be sold shall be limited to
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, from 6:00 a.m.
until 2:00 a.m. the following day (prevailing time). For Sunday, said hours
shall be from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m.
      (14)   Souvenir packages sold pursuant to this chapter shall not be sold
for consumption on the premises of the distillery, and bottle or package seals
may not be broken until the purchaser is off the distillery premises.
   (G)   Mandatory responsible beverage service training; standards for
certification.
      (1)   All persons, corporations, companies, associations, restaurants,
businesses, clubs and other entities licensed or employed in the sales and
service of alcoholic beverages, including the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages by the package or drink, shall participate in and complete a
mandatory responsible beverage service training program approved by the County
Judge/Executive or the County Judge/Executive's designee. Before approval is
granted, the County Judge/Executive or his designee shall first be satisfied
that the training program is genuine and effectively trains all participants in
the recognition of false identification and age documents as well as the human
characteristics of alcohol and/or drug intoxication. The county shall not
require enrollment in any particular class or classes, but only require that
the training come from a recognized person, program or agency with a bona fide
curriculum that meets the goals expressed.
      (2)   All persons, corporations, companies, associations, restaurants,
businesses, clubs and other entities licensed by the county for the sale of
alcoholic beverages shall require all their employees and other persons engaged
in the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages or engaged in managing the
premises on which such sales are offered, to complete a responsible beverage
service training class approved by the County Judge/Executive or the County
Judge/Executive's designee.
      (3)   Divisions (G)(1) and (2) above shall not apply to any manufacturer
of alcoholic beverages as this term is defined in KRS 241.010(41) or any other
person, corporation, association, business or other entity licensed for the
wholesale of alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   Standards for certification. The training person or agency must
reasonably instruct upon and certify the participants' competence in at least
the following:
         (a)   Pertinent Federal, state and local laws related to the sale of
alcohol;
         (b)   Verification of age, forms of identification and usual methods
of false or misleading age identification;
         (c)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication, including the effect of alcohol on pregnant women, their fetuses
and other situations involving the use of alcohol by persons vulnerable to its
effects;
         (d)   Recognition of the signs of intoxication;
         (e)   Strategies for intervention and prevention of underage and
intoxicated persons from consuming alcohol;
         (f)   The licensee's policies and guidelines, including the employee's
role in observing those policies; and
         (g)   Potential liability of persons serving alcohol.
      (5)   The person providing the responsible beverage service training
shall be certified by the government agency, industry or organization that
sponsors or develops the training curriculum.
      (6)   New licensees and their respective employees, managers, officers
and agents who are required to complete the mandatory responsible beverage
service training shall have 90 days from the date of the issuance of their
initial license to complete the mandatory responsible beverage service
training. New employees, managers, officers and agents shall complete the
mandatory responsible beverage service training within 90 days from the date of
employment or other like affiliation with the licensee. Licensees, employees,
managers, officers or agents who fail to complete the mandatory responsible
beverage service training within the prescribed time shall not sell or serve
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises until they have successfully
completed the required training. All persons completing the training
requirements in this section shall be recertified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the County Judge/Executive or his
designee under the foregoing criteria not less than once every three years
thereafter.
      (7)   Personnel Certification Records. Each licensee shall maintain
written proof of completion of service training on its business premises for
each person connected with its business for whom training is required under
this section. Training records shall be retained by the licensee for a minimum
of three years. Each licensee and other persons engaged in the sales or service
of alcoholic beverages by the package or drink shall present proof of
completion of the responsible beverage service training required, and in a
format approved by the alcoholic beverage control administrator, by December 1
of each year and, additionally, upon the request of the alcoholic beverage
control administrator at any other time throughout the year.
      (8)   No person, corporation, company, partnership, association,
restaurant, business, club or other entity holding a license for the sale of
distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages by the package or drink shall
intentionally, willfully, knowingly, or wantonly authorize, direct, permit,
allow or cause any employee, officer or agent of the licensee who has not
completed the mandatory service training required in this section, to sell or
serve any alcoholic beverages to anyone on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Effective date of section. This section shall become effective upon
passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 410.5, passed 8-22-1984; Ord. KOC 411.1 (2013), passed 12-5-2013;
Ord. KOC 411.1 (2015), passed 10-1-2015; Ord. KOC 411.2 (2017), passed 6-1-
2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 NUDITY IN ESTABLISHMENTS LICENSED TO SELL ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR. The duly-appointed Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator of the county.
      BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A business within the county, but outside the
corporate limits of the City of Owensboro, where liquor, beer, and/or wine is
sold for consumption on the premises pursuant to a retail drink liquor license
and/or retail malt beverage liquor license that has been issued by the county.
      LICENSE. A retail drink liquor license or a retail malt beverage liquor
issued by the county.
      LICENSEE. Any person to whom a retail drink liquor license or retail malt
beverage liquor license has been issued by the county, including the officers
and agents of the licensee.
      PERSON. A human being, and where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, an unincorporated association, a partnership, a government, or a
governmental authority.
      PREMISES. The land and building in and upon which any business
establishment regulated by alcoholic beverage statutes is carried on.
      RETAIL LICENSEE. Any licensee, including its officers, employees, and/or
agents, who sell at retail, any alcoholic beverage for the sale of which an
occupational license is required.
   (B)   Prohibition of nude or nearly nude activities.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for, and a person guilty of, performing nude
or nearly nude activities when that person appears on a business
establishment’s premises in such manner or attire as to expose to view any
portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva, or genitals, or any simulation thereof,
or when any female appears on a business establishment’s premises in such
manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof.
      (2)   This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   (C)   Licensees prohibited from permitting nude or nearly nude activities. A
licensee or retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude
activities when, having control of the business establishment’s premises, said
licensee knowingly organizes, supervises, promotes, permits, acquiesces, or
fails to make a reasonable and timely effort to halt or abate any nude or
nearly nude activities as defined and prohibited in division (B) above on said
premises.
   (D)   Hearing; revocation of liquor license.
      (1)   In the event that a violation of divisions (B) or (C) above occurs,
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall forthwith conduct a hearing
pursuant to KRS 243.520, in conjunction with KRS 241.160 and 241.190, to
determine whether the liquor licensee, at whose business establishment the
activity prohibited by this section occurred, shall have his or her liquor
license suspended or revoked.
      (2)   In the event that three or more violations of divisions (B) or (C)
above occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator, after a hearing, shall revoke the retail drink
liquor license or retail malt beverage liquor license or both.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be signed by the County Judge/
Executive, attested by the Fiscal Court Clerk, recorded, published, and
effective upon publication, according to law.
(Ord. 1030.2 (94), passed 3-30-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401 (k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457; and
      (2)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   COUNTY. The County of Daviess, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services.
The term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The County Treasurer or other person designated by the
County Fiscal Court.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code as defined in KRS 67.750
(7).
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61, minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by Ch. 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted
as follows:
      (1)   Includes any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Includes any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Includes any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Includes any amount of income and expenses passed through
separately as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business
entity that is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX. The same meaning as occupational license fee as
enacted by this subchapter.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
county. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the county.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the county means NET PROFIT.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the county means NET PROFIT and as apportioned
under §
110.18.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.16 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the county shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license before the
commencement of business or in the event of a change of business status.
Licensees are required to notify the county of any changes in address, the
cessation of business or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the county in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.17 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (D) below, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Commonwealth Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the
county an occupational license fee for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the county. The occupational license fee shall be measured by
0.70% effective January 1, 2020. The occupational and net profit tax rates
shall be amended to 1% effective January 1, 2022 of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the county for work
done or services performed or rendered in the county by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; or
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the county by a resident
or nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license fee imposed in this section shall not apply
to persons or business entities exempted from occupational license fees by
state law.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court may, by order, set an exemption of up to $10,000 from
the net profits fee for each business and occupational license fee for each
employee. Such exemptions shall be effective at the start of the next calendar
year following the order, and must be adopted no later than 90 days prior to
the start of the calendar year. Exemptions established by order shall remain in
effect until modified by a subsequent order. The exemption shall be calculated
pro rata for entities reporting net profits on a taxable year other than the
calendar year.
   (D)   In order to provide uniformity to the citizens and taxpayers of the
county, the Fiscal Court adopts by reference as if incorporated here in full,
the exemptions set out in City Ordinance 5-2005 as the same exists as of the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006; Ord. KOC 220.32 (2019), passed 6-6-
2019; Ord. KOC 220.33 (2020), passed 9-17-2020)
§ 110.18 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor in division (C) below, and the denominator of which is two;
and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the county during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the county based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the county.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the county during the tax period, and
the denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
county if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the U.S. government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the county
regardless of the FOB point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the county and the purchaser is the U.S.
government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the county based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the county and
the denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-
producing activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the county, the
business entity may petition the county or the county may require, in respect
to all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the county; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the county, the
license fee shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the county.
The license fee shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the county bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the county to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through to the owners are subject to this subchapter. The
occupational license fee imposed in this subchapter is assessed against income
before it is passed through these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the county during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license fee for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the county.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license fee shall be computed for the purposes of
this subchapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by
the federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting
required for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.19 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license fee
calculated under §
110.17.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall make a return and report to the county, and pay to the county, the tax
required to be withheld under this section.
      (1)   The return and payment to be made on account of deductions by
employees from salaries, wages, and other compensation of employees shall be
made on a monthly or quarterly basis. Employers withholding $300 or more
license fee per quarter must file on a monthly basis upon notification from the
Finance Director or his or her designee. Withholding less than $300 license fee
per quarter shall require the employer to file on a quarterly basis. An
employer’s filing status may not be changed unless permission is granted by the
Finance Director.
      (2)   Returns required to be filed monthly shall be due on or before the
fifteenth day of the month next following each monthly period, except the
return for the last month of the calendar year, which shall be due on January
31.
      (3)   Returns required to be filed quarterly shall be due on or before
the last day of the month following each quarterly period.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the county any sums
required by this subchapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the county for any sum or sums withheld or required to
be withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   If the due date of a return falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the return due date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. If the envelope bearing a return is
postmarked within 48 hours of midnight on the due date, interest and penalties
shall not be assessed. Returns submitted other than by mail must be received on
or before the return due date.
   (E)   The county shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the county sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the county, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the county. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
county.
   (F)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually complete and file on a form furnished or approved by the Finance
Director, a reconciliation of the occupational license tax withheld where
compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either copies of federal forms W-
2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or a detailed employee
listing with the required equivalent information, as determined by the Finance
Director, shall be submitted.
   (G)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the county during the preceding calendar year.
   (H)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (I)   The President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the county, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided, that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (I) unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the tax imposed by this subchapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this subchapter become or became due.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the county subject to the tax imposed under §
110.17 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this subchapter from the
employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the
county each quarter in the same manner as if he, she, or they were the
employer.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.20 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by a date specified by the Finance Director. Blank forms for returns shall
be supplied by the county.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the county. Whenever, in the opinion of
the county, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the county may compel the
business entity to produce for inspection, a copy of any statements and
schedules in support thereof that have not been previously filed. The county
may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the federal
government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the county from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the county deems it necessary, the county may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the county deems sufficient
to determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The county may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the
taxable income of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of
the business entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
it appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the county at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.21 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The county may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the county and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the county. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.22 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.19, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the county from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the county, based on time spent outside the county, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this county, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the county, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the county may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the county and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the county prior to approval of
the refund.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.23 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the county
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the county
is greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the county within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the county receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the county. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The county may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.24 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
may be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for
the filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the county, whichever
is the later, except in the following circumstances.
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.23 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
county, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the county.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.25 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly-authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to disclose to the Commonwealth
Commissioner of Revenue or his or her duly-authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the county if
the Commonwealth Commissioner of Revenue grants to the county the reciprocal
right to obtain information form the files and records of the Commonwealth
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished; provided, further, that the county may publish statistics based
on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net
profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the county is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid to the county and placed to the credit of the county’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
§ 110.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be effective on July 1, 2005. All taxes and
exemptions calculated on a taxable year beginning on a date other than July 1
shall be computed on a pro rata basis.
   (B)   The effective date of the reduction of the occupational license fee
from 0.5% to 0.35% is January 1, 2007.
(Ord. KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006)
INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 110.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated area of Daviess County.
   INSURANCE COMPANY. Any fire and casualty insurance company or agent doing
business in the county-wide area of Daviess County, including the incorporated
portions thereof, that provides insurance on property or risks located in the
unincorporated areas of Daviess County.
   PREMIUM. Any assessment collected by or any payment made to a fire and
casualty insurance company for insurance on property or risks within the
county: but PREMIUM shall not be construed  to include any reinsurance premiums
paid to or received by any insurance company, premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workmen’s Compensation Act.
(Order 1973-06-25, passed 6-25-1973)
§ 110.36 LICENSE TAX; FIRE PROTECTION SINKING FUND.
   (A)   On or before the last day of February of each year, every insurance
company shall file with the County Treasurer a statement of the total amount of
direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year for insurance on
property or risks located within the county, less premiums returned to policy
holders, premiums on policies not taken, and dividends paid or credited to
policy holders.
   (B)   Upon filing the statement, an insurance company shall pay to the
County Treasurer a license lax of 4.9% of the premiums received less the
deductions provided for in division (A) above; provided, however, that the
minimum annual license tax shall be $5.
   (C)   All license fees due from insurance companies shall be due and payable
annually on or before the last day in February, and if not paid by this date,
the insurance company shall be deemed delinquent and a penalty of 10% per annum
may be added.
   (D)   The license fee for insurance companies entering business after the
last day in February shall be due and payable at the time of establishing the
business and if not paid within ten days shall be deemed delinquent and a
penalty of 10% may be added.
   (E)   The County Treasurer shall deposit the license taxes collected
pursuant to the provisions of this suchapter in a sinking fund to be designated
as the “Daviess County Fire Protection Sinking Fund.” The Fund shall be used
for fire protection equipment, Fire Department buildings and salaries, or
incidental expenses for maintaining and equipping Daviess County Fire
Departments; or used as security for the sale of revenue bonds commensurate
with the above enumerated expenditures.
(Order 1973-06-25, passed 6-25-1973; Order 1974-01-01, passed 11-28-1973)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company shall make the accounts and books of the company
which reflect the premiums taxed under the provisions of this subchapter
available to the fiscal court or its representative at the local agent’s
office, the home office, or the state office of the company; and audits of the
accounts and books may be authorized by the Fiscal Court.
(Order 1973-06-25, passed 6-25-1973) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 INSURANCE LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   An additional insurance license fee is imposed upon and shall be
collected from insurance companies within Daviess County, but outside the City
of Owensboro and the City of Whitesville, for the privilege of engaging in the
business of insurance. Effective July 1, 2024, the license fee upon imposed and
collected from insurance companies for casualty (but excluding rain and hail
insurance premiums on crops), automobile, inland marine, fire and allied perils
insurance shall be 1.1%.
   (B)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company issuing an
insurance policy that is not a life insurance policy shall be 1.1% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within Daviess County, but outside
the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro and the City of Whitesville, on
those classes of businesses that it is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policy holders. However, the license fee or tax imposed
shall not apply to premiums received on:
      (1)   Policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Policies insuring employers against liability for personal injuries
to their employees, or death of their employees caused thereby, under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Health Insurance policies issued to groups and individuals;
      (4)   Policies issued through Kentucky Access created in Subtitle 17B of
KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Policies for high deductible health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. §
223(c)(2).
   (C)   All license fees imposed by this section shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees that are not paid on
or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined
in KRS 131.010(6).
   (D)   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
section shall annually, by March 31, furnish the county with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty, but excluding rain and hail premiums on crops;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Inland marine;
      (4)   Fire and allied perils; and
      (5)   Health.
   (E)   All revenues derived from this section shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the County Fiscal Court to fund fire protection services and
protection to persons and property expenditures in the county.
(Ord. 220.37 (2023), passed 11-14-2023)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.01(F) shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25, and not more than
$500 or by imprisonment for up to 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §
110.02(B) or (C) shall be punished by a fine of up to $250 for each violation.
      (2)   A second violation of §
110.02(B) or (C) within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class B
misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (3)   Three or more violations of §
110.02(B) or (C) within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
            1.   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the county; or
            2.   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
         (b)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (D)(1) shall
not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less
than $25.
      (2)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or
before the time prescribed under §
110.19 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (D)(2) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this division (D), any
business entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to
12% per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid,
from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the county. A fraction
of a month is counted as an entire month.
      (4)   Every tax imposed by §§
110.15 through
110.27, and all increases, interest, and penalties thereon, shall become, from
the time the tax is due and payable, a personal debt of the taxpayer to the
county.
      (5)   The county may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
110.17 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (D)(1),
(D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) above by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the county shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of §§
110.15 through
110.27.
      (6)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this division (D), any
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels,
or advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under §§
110.15 through
110.27 of a return, affidavit, claim, or other document, which is fraudulent or
is false as to any material matter, whether or not the falsity or fraud is with
the knowledge or consent of the person authorized or required to present the
return, affidavit, claim, or document, shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
      (8)   A return for the purpose of this division (D) shall mean and
include any return, declaration, or form prescribed by the county and required
to be filed with the county by the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.27, or by the rules of the county or by written request for information to
the business entity by the county.
      (9)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.25 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (10)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.25 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
      (11)   The Finance Director may waive any penalty when he or she
determines there to be reasonable cause for failure to comply with any of the
requirements of §§
110.15 through
110.27.
   (E)   Any insurance company violating the provisions of §§
110.35 through
110.37 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100. The fines and court
costs shall be accounted for, as directed by Kentucky Statutes.
(Order 1973-06-25, passed 6-25-1973; Ord. 1030.2 (94), passed 3-30-1994; Ord.
KOC 220.17 (2006), passed 11-21-2006; Ord. KOC 411.1 (2013), passed 12-5-2013)
CHAPTER 111: PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS; SECOND-HAND ARTICLES
Section
   
111.01   Duty to keep a daily register
   
111.02   Providing a copy of the daily register to the County Sheriff
   
111.03   Inventory requirements
   
111.04   Sales to minor; prohibitions
   
111.05   County emergency; suspension of KRS 67.077
   
111.06   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DUTY TO KEEP A DAILY REGISTER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons dealing in the purchase, sale, or
exchange of second-hand or antique jewelry, coins, watches, diamonds, or other
precious stones, cutlery, old gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals,
or any other second-hand manufactured articles, composed wholly or in part of
gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals, to keep a daily register on a
form provided by the Owensboro Police Department and the County Sheriff of
every article received by them in the course of their business and the persons
from whom such articles were acquired.
   (B)   Said register shall contain as minute a description of each article as
is possible, including any identification numbers and the manufacturer’s name,
as well as the name, age, sex, race, address, driver’s license number, general
description of the individual or individuals selling or exchanging the
articles, and their signatures.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 111.02 PROVIDING A COPY OF THE DAILY REGISTER TO THE COUNTY SHERIFF.
   All persons engaged in business as described in §
111.01 shall furnish to the Chief of Police of the City of Owensboro and the
Sheriff of the county each day at their offices by 11:00 a.m. a copy of the
register for all transactions which took place during the preceding day.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 111.03 INVENTORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons engaged in business as described in §
111.01 shall retain each and every article received by them in the same state
or condition in which it was received, and all articles received during one
day’s transaction shall be kept separately and shall not be co-mingled with
articles received during any other day’s transactions. Furthermore, all
articles shall be made available, at the place of business where the articles
were acquired, for examination to members of the Police Department, Sheriff’s
Department, state police, or other law enforcement official for a period of
five consecutive days after their receipt, before such articles are resold or
exchanged, unless written permission is obtained from the Chief of Police of
the City of Owensboro and the Sheriff of the county.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 111.04 SALES TO MINOR; PROHIBITIONS.
   No person engaged in business as described in §
111.01 shall purchase or exchange second-hand or antique jewelry, coins,
watches, diamonds, or other precious stones, cutlery, or old gold, silver,
platinum, or other precious metals, or any other second-hand manufactured
articles composed wholly or in part of gold, silver, platinum, or other
precious metals from any person less than 18 years of age.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980) Penalty, see
§
111.99
§ 111.05 COUNTY EMERGENCY; SUSPENSION OF KRS 67.077.
   The Fiscal Court declares that an emergency does exist due to the increase
in thefts of certain jewelry, coins, precious stones, and metals occurring in
the Owensboro-Daviess County area, and further, that the current provisions of
the laws are inadequate to provide law enforcement officials with sufficient
information and authority to control the flow of stolen articles through
certain businesses referred to hereinabove, and pursuant to KRS 67.078(2),
suspends the requirements of KRS 67.077.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 111.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the duties, requirements, or prohibitions contained in
this chapter shall be punishable as a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. KOC R.3 (80), passed - -; Ord. KOC 440.1, passed 11-25-1980)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Rationale and findings
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Issuance of license
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Inspection
   
112.07   Expiration and renewal of license
   
112.08   Suspension
   
112.09   Revocation
   
112.10   Hearing; license denial, suspension, and revocation; appeal
   
112.11   Transfer of license
   
112.12   Hours of operation
   
112.13   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually-explicit films on
premises
   
112.14   Loitering and exterior lighting and monitoring requirements
   
112.15   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
112.16   Prohibited conduct
   
112.17   Scienter required to prove violation of business licensee liability
   
112.18   Failure of county to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee
rights
   
112.19   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Checklist and Applications
§ 112.01 RATIONALE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult
entertainment establishments in order to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of adult
entertainment establishments within the county. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content or reasonable access to any communicative materials, including
sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of
this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented
materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Fiscal Court, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. ZJ. Gifts D-4, LLC, 541 U.S.
774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002);
City of Erie v. Pap’s AM, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime
Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S.
50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v.
LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v. Bellanca, 452 U.S.
714 (1981); and Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th
Cir. 2008); 729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court, 515 F.3d 485 (6th Cir.
2008); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan Gov 7 of Nashville & Davidson
County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, LLC, v. Union
Township Bd. of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir. 2005) -en banc); Daytona
Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams
v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale,
480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477
F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St. Joseph, 350
F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663
(9th Cir. 1996); DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir.
1997); Currence v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24,
2002); Broadway Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Tenn. 1986); Bright
Lights, Inc. v. City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky. 1993); Ben’s Bar,
Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); Richland Bookmart v.
Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Center for Fair Public Policy v.
Maricopa County, 336 F.3d 1153 (9th Cir. 2003); In re Tennessee Public
Indecency Statute, 172 F.3d 873 (6th Cir. Jan. 13 1999)(table); Bamon Corp. v.
City of Dayton,, 923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of
Akron, 40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); O’Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894
F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. et al. v. Metropolitan
Government of Nashville and Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001); Z.J.
Gifts D-2, LLC v. City of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); ILQ
Investments, Inc. v. City of Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir. 1994); World
Wide Video of Spokane, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 227 F. Supp. 2d 1143 (E.D.
Wash. 2002); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d 710 (N.D.
Ohio 1998); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery County, 256 F.
Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Kentucky Restaurant Concepts, Inc. v. City of
Louisville and Jefferson County, 209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky. 2002);
Restaurant Ventures of Lexington-Fayette Urban County Gov’t, 60 S.W. 3d 572
(Ky. App. 2001); Mr. B’s Bar & Lounge, Inc. v. Louisville, 630 S.W.2d 564 (Ky.
App. 1981); Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Jameson, 215 S.W.3d 9 (Ky. 2007); World
Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir.
2004); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); People ex
rel. Deters v. The Lion’s Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent
Injunction Order (111, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13,
2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of Kennedale, No. 4;05-CV-166-A,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D. Tex. May 26,2005); and based upon
reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around adult
entertainment establishments, including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas -
1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston,
Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee -
1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978;
Spokane, Washington - 2001; St.Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado -
2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas -
2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; AmariJlo,
Texas - 1977; Hillsborough county, Florida - 2006; New York, New York Times
Square - 1994; and the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually-Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota),
the Fiscal Court finds:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments, as a category of commercial
uses, are associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects
including, but not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution,
potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation; and
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the county has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the county’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually-oriented and non-sexually-oriented
establishments. Additionally, the county’s interest in regulating adult
entertainment establishments extends to preventing future secondary effects of
either current or future adult entertainment establishments that may locate in
the county. The county finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this
chapter are reasonably believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (C)   Findings and legislative record adopted and incorporated. The county
adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and legislative record
related to the adverse secondary effects of adult entertainment establishments,
including the judicial opinions and reports related to such secondary effects.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs; films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear
semi-nude.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore or adult video store,
an adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, a semi-nude model studio, or
a sexual device shop.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
persons for any form of consideration.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as an adult
entertainment establishment by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials
rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   COUNTY. Daviess County, Kentucky.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT. Describes and pertains to any person who
performs any service on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person
is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any adult entertainment
establishment as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment establishment, to any adult entertainment establishment; or
      (3)   The addition of any adult entertainment establishment to any other
existing adult entertainment establishment.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney, not otherwise employed by the county, who is
licensed to practice law in the commonwealth, and retained to serve as an
independent tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the adult entertainment establishment
or control the operation, management, or policies of the adult entertainment
establishment or legal entity which operates the adult entertainment
establishment;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (e.g., President, Vice-President, Secretary,
Treasurer, managing member, managing Director, and the like) in a legal entity
which operates the adult entertainment establishment.
   INTERIOR BUSINESS SPACE. The floor area inside an adult entertainment
establishment that is visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult entertainment
establishment has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed
as an applicant on the application for an adult entertainment establishment
license. In the case of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the
adult entertainment establishment employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated an adult entertainment establishment
regardless of whether that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
   PERSON. Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the adult entertainment establishment
is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the adult entertainment establishment, the grounds, private
walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the
application for an adult entertainment establishment license.
   PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY. Exists where the commercial establishment:
      (1)   Has a substantial portion of its displayed merchandise which
consists of said items;
      (2)   Has a substantial portion of the wholesale value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
      (3)   Has a substantial portion of the retail value (defined as the price
charged to customers) of its displayed merchandise which consists of said
items;
      (4)   Derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration of said items;
      (5)   Maintains a substantial portion of its interior business space for
the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to
access said items shall be included in interior business space maintained for
the display, sale, or rental of said items);
      (6)   Maintains at least 500 square feet of its interior business space
for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to
access said items shall be included in interior business space maintained for
the display, sale, or rental of said items) and limits access to the premises
to adults only;
      (7)   Offers for sale or rental at least 2,000 of the foregoing items and
limits access to the premises to adults only;
      (8)   Regularly features said items and regularly advertises itself or
holds itself out as an establishment that caters to adult sexual interests by
using “adult”, “XXX”, “sex”, “erotic”, or substantially similar language; or
      (9)   Maintains an adult arcade which means any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon
matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an on-going basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually- transmitted diseases or for
preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any pharmacy,
drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to providing
medical or health care products or services, or any establishment that does not
limit access to its premises or a portion of its premises to adults only.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; and the female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibty turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Sexual performance by a child; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; sexual abuse or assault; molestation of a child;
      (2)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution;
      (3)   Dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of
harmful material to a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography;
      (4)   Illicit use and distribution of a controlled substance;
      (5)   Engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a sexually-
oriented business;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in the commonwealth, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL. At least 35% of the item(s) so modified.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP or CONTROL OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
Any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of an adult
entertainment establishment would ordinarily be positioned while watching a
film, videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
adult entertainment establishment in the county without a valid adult
entertainment establishment license.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
employee, as defined in §
112.02, of an adult entertainment establishment in the county without a valid
adult entertainment establishment employee license, except that a person who is
a licensee under a valid adult entertainment establishment license shall not be
required to also obtain an adult entertainment establishment employee license.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   An applicant for an adult entertainment establishment license or an
adult entertainment establishment employee license shall file in person at the
office of the County Clerk a completed application made on a form provided by
the County Clerk. An adult entertainment establishment may designate an
individual with an influential interest in the business to file its application
for an adult entertainment establishment license in person on behalf of the
business. The application shall be signed as required by division (D) below and
shall be notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it
contains, for each person required to sign the application, the information
and/or items required in this division (C), accompanied by the appropriate
licensing fee:
         (a)   The applicant’s full legal name, and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years;
         (b)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license or a
copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document
issued by a governmental agency;
         (d)   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the business name, location, legal description, mailing address, and
phone number of the adult entertainment establishment;
         (e)   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent
authorized to receive service of process;
         (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable;
         (g)   A statement of whether any adult entertainment establishment in
which an applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five
years (and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
         (h)   An application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business
is located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a scaled diagram indicating that the
setup and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the
applicable regulations.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to this division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
County Clerk within ten working days of a change of circumstances which would
render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment
employee license under this section shall sign the application for a license.
If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license under this
section is an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license
is other than an individual, each person with an influential interest in the
adult entertainment establishment or in a legal entity that controls the adult
entertainment establishment shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under this chapter, and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   Confidentiality. The information provided by an applicant in
connection with an application for a license under this chapter shall be
maintained by the office of the County Clerk on a confidential basis, and such
information may be disclosed only as may be required by the Commonwealth Open
Records Act, and only to the extent required, by court order.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment license, the County Clerk shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from
a preexisting adult entertainment establishment that is lawfully operating in
the county and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the
applicant is entitled to an annual adult entertainment establishment license.
The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the county to
deny or grant an annual license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed
adult entertainment establishment license application, the County Clerk shall
either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to
deny a license to the applicant. The County Clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   The adult entertainment establishment, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the locational requirements of any ordinance in the
county or the City of Owensboro governing adult entertainment establishments;
      (5)   Any adult entertainment establishment in which an applicant has had
an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment employee license, the County Clerk shall
immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks
licensure to work in a licensed adult entertainment establishment and the
completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to
an annual adult entertainment establishment employee license. The temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the county to deny or grant an
annual license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed adult entertainment
establishment employee license application, the County Clerk shall either issue
a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a
license to the applicant. The County Clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   Any adult entertainment establishment in which the applicant has
had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time
during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   Contents of license. The license, if granted, shall state on its face
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the
license issued to the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is
for an adult entertainment establishment, the address of the adult
entertainment establishment. The adult entertainment establishment license
shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult
entertainment establishment so that it may be read at any time that the
business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. An adult
entertainment establishment employee shall keep the employee’s license on his
or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.05 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for adult entertainment
establishment licenses and adult entertainment establishment employee licenses
shall be as follows: $100 for the initial fee for an adult entertainment
establishment license and $50 for annual renewal; $50 for the initial adult
entertainment establishment employee license; and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.06 INSPECTION.
   Adult entertainment establishments and adult entertainment establishment
employees shall permit the County Clerk and his or her agents to inspect, from
time to time on an occasional basis, the portions of the adult entertainment
establishment premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times
when the adult entertainment establishment is occupied by patrons or is open to
the public. This section shall be narrowly construed by the county to authorize
reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but
not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The County Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to suspend an adult entertainment establishment license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if the adult entertainment establishment licensee has
knowingly violated this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The County Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to suspend an adult entertainment establishment employee license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if the employee licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The County Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if the licensee
knowingly violates this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee’s license
has become effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The County Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the adult entertainment establishment license or the adult
entertainment establishment employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the adult
entertainment establishment;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the adult
entertainment establishment during a period of time when the license was
finally suspended or revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the adult entertainment establishment; or
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to consume alcohol or appear in a state of semi-nudity or
nudity on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license; provided, that if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null, void, and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the county revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult entertainment establishment
license or adult entertainment establishment employee license for one year from
the date revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.10 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the County Clerk or designated agent issues a written
notice of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the County Clerk shall
immediately send such notice, which shall include the specific grounds under
this chapter for such action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by
personal delivery or certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most
current business address or other mailing address on file with the County Clerk
for the respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following.
         (a)   The respondent shall have ten days after the delivery of the
written notice to submit, at the office of the County Attorney, a written
request for a hearing.
         (b)   If the respondent does not request a hearing within said ten
days, the County Clerk’s written notice shall become a final denial,
suspension, or revocation, as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is
issued, and shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) below.
      (2)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the County Attorney shall, within ten days after the
submission of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date,
time, and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than
ten days nor more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is
issued. The county shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (3)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the
county’s witnesses. The County Clerk shall also be represented by the County
Attorney, and shall prove the grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking the
license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless extended at the
request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due process and proper
administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a final written
decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter,
to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the County Clerk to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the
County Clerk shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the
applicant.
   (B)   If any party files a court action challenging a licensing decision,
the county shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing
within 30 days after receiving written notice of the court action. The county
shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action, shall
comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
adult entertainment establishment that is lawfully operating as an adult
entertainment establishment, or any adult entertainment establishment employee
that is lawfully employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee, on
the date on which the completed business or employee application, as
applicable, is filed with the County Clerk. Upon the filing of any court action
to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the county’s enforcement of
any denial, suspension, or revocation of a temporary license or annual license,
the County Clerk shall immediately issue the respondent a provisional license.
The provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
adult entertainment establishment or to continue employment as an adult
entertainment establishment employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of
a judgment on the respondent’s appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise
enjoin the county’s enforcement.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult entertainment establishment under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the adult
entertainment establishment license application.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult entertainment establishment shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult entertainment
establishment which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises,
through any mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film,
videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by
an emphasis on the display of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator’s
stations, booths, or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films,
videocassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram
shall also designate the place on which the license will be conspicuously
posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each
diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient
to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The County Clerk may waive
the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   The occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person;
         (b)   Specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (c)   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (d)   Violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (e)   Violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (A)(5)(a) through (A)(5)(d) above.
      (7)   (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every
area of the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
         (b)   If the premises has two or more operator’s stations designated,
then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron
is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of
the operator’s stations. The view required in this division (A)(7) must be by
direct line of sight from the operator’s station.
         (c)   It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this division (A)(7) remains unobstructed by any
doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials or
enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(8) above to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No patron shall knowingly enter or remain in a viewing room less than
150 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (D)   No patron shall knowingly be or remain within one foot of any other
patron while in a viewing room that is 50 square feet or larger in area.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly make any hole or opening between viewing
rooms.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 LOITERING AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult entertainment
establishment to:
      (1)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult entertainment
establishment to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with
overhead lighting of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
customers are permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot
candles as measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained
at all times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (C)   No adult entertainment establishment shall erect a fence, wall, or
similar barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the
establishment from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All preexisting adult entertainment establishments lawfully operating
in the county in compliance with all state and local laws prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and all adult entertainment establishment
employees working in the county prior to the effective date of this chapter,
are granted a de facto temporary license to continue operation or employment
for a period of 90 days following the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   By the end of said 90 days, all adult entertainment establishments and
adult entertainment establishment employees must conform to and abide by the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.16 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in an adult entertainment establishment, appear in a state of
nudity or engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in an adult entertainment
establishment, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee
who, while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage
at least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who regularly appears semi-nude in an adult entertainment
establishment shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing
of a customer on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   No person shall sell, use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (F)   No operator or licensee of an adult entertainment establishment shall
knowingly violate the regulations in this section or knowingly allow an
employee or any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (G)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the County Clerk, and summarizing
the provisions of divisions (A) through (E) above, shall be posted near the
entrance of the adult entertainment establishment in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct, or
obscure said sign.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OF BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental state
is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the adult entertainment
establishment licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or
for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer,
Director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly
allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability
that the person to whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.18 FAILURE OF COUNTY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a county official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the county official under this chapter, and not completed in the
time prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by
the county of an applicant or licensee’s application for an adult entertainment
establishment license or an adult entertainment establishment employee’s
license (including a renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the
business or employee allowed to commence operations or employment the day after
the deadline for the county’s action has passed.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective as provided by law.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 12
months, or both. Each day a violation is committed, or permitted to continue,
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   (B)   The County Attorney may institute civil proceedings necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute, restrain, or correct
violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in the name of the county;
provided, however, that nothing in this section and no action taken shall be
held to exclude such criminal or administrative proceedings authorized by other
provisions of this chapter, or any of the laws in force in the county or to
exempt anyone violating this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty
which may be incurred.
(Ord. KOC 1030.3 (2008), passed 12-18-2008)
APPENDIX A: CHECKLIST AND APPLICATIONS
Adult Entertainment License
Checklist
Application:
1. Legal description of real estate
      a. Deed
      b. Plat
2. Diagram/sketch of premises
      a. Total floor space occupied by business
      b. Dimensions of interior space (within 6’’ accuracy)
      c. Configurations
         I. Film/video operations: (diagram street/north oriented; scale)
            1. Operator station location
            2. Booths/viewing room location
            3. Overhead lighting fixtures
            4. Required restrooms (no viewing equipment permitted)
            5. Designate non-patron space
            6. License display location (conspicuous)
            7. Lighting in patron access area > 5.0 foot candles at floor level
            8. Required sign: (interior)
               a. Occupancy of viewing room (less than 150 square feet) limited
to one person
               b. Specified sexual activity prohibited
                  i. Intercourse
                  ii. Oral copulation
                  iii. Masturbation
                  iv. Sodomy
                  v. Excretory functions as a part of or connected with any of
activities b(i) to b(iv)
               c. Making openings between viewing rooms prohibited
               d. Violators required to leave premises
               e. Violations of these regulations are illegal
               f. Operator station must have unobstructed line of sight view of
all patron access areas, except restrooms
               g. Exterior Monitoring
                  i. Signs; Two “No Loitering” conspicuous
                  ii. Inspection:
                     1. Designated employees, every ninety minutes or
                     2. Video cameras
                     3. Lighting sufficient to provide visual/video monitoring
                     4. Lighting at least 1.0 foot candle at ground level
                  iii. Fences, walls, similar barriers preventing visibility
from public rights-of- way prohibited.
Inspection
      Application received: ________________ New: ______ Renewal:__
Provisionals_____
      Temporary licensed issued: ______________________
      Inspection requested (planning & zoning): ______________________
      Inspection report received:______________________
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO OPERATE
AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
Applicant’s full legal name: _______________________
State whether you are (check one):
_______ an individual (complete Sections A and D)
_______ a partnership (complete Sections B and D)
_______ a corporation or limited liability company (complete Sections C and D)
A.      1)   State your full legal name: _______________________
      2)   State any other names/aliases used in the last five years:
______________________________________
      3)   Current business/mailing address:
_______________________________________________________
                  _______________________________________________________________
      4)   Are you over 18 years of age?      Yes    No
      Attach written proof of age (current driver’s license OR a copy of your
birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued by a
government agency)
B.      1)   State full name of partnership: _______________________
      2)   Identify all persons with an influential interest (see KOC 1030.3
(2008), including all names/aliases used by them in the last five years:
            ___________________________________________________________________
            ___________________________________________________________________
      3)   Business/mailing address(es) of persons identified in B.2 above:
___________
            ___________________________________________________________________
            ___________________________________________________________________
            For each person listed in B.2 above, attach written proof of age
(current driver’s license OR a copy of birth certificate accompanied by a
picture identification document issued by a government agency)
_________________________________________
C.      1)   State full name of corporation or LLC:
_____________________________
      _________________________________________________________________
      2)   Business address: ______________________________________________
      _________________________________________________________________
      3)   Identify all persons with an influential interest (see KOC 1030.3
(2008), including all names/aliases used by them in the last five years:
_______________________
      __________________________________________________________________
      4)   Business/mailing address(es) of persons identified in C.3 above:
__________
      ___________________________________________________________________
      ___________________________________________________________________
      ___________________________________________________________________
      For each person identified in C.3 above, attach proof of age (current
driver’s license OR a copy of birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a government agency)
(If additional space is needed, check here ____ and respond further on a
separate sheet.)
      D.      1)   Please state the doing business as name of the adult
entertainment establishment:
            ___________________________________________________________________
            2)   Please state the name and business address of the statutory
agent or other agent             authorized to receive service of process:
Name: ______________________________________________________________
Address: ____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________
3)   Has any person identified in response to section A, B, or C been convicted
of or pled guilty or nolo contenders to a specified criminal activity? (see KOC
1030.3 (2008) for definition of “specified criminal activity”.)
         Yes       No
If yes, then for each such conviction, guilty plea, or plea of nolo contenders,
state:
a)   The person and the offense: _________________________________________
b)   Court in which charged:____________________________________________
c)   The date of conviction or plea: _______________________________________
d)   The place of conviction or plea: ______________________________________
e)   Date of release from confinement: ___________________________________
(If additional space is needed, check here ____ and respond further on a
separate sheet.)
4)   Has any person identified in response to section A, B, or C had an
influential interest in any adult entertainment establishment that, in the past
five years, (and while he or she had such influential interest), has been
declared by a court of law to be a nuisance or has been subject to a court
order requiring closure or padlocking of the business) (See KOC 1030.3 (2008))
         Yes       No
If yes, state:
a)   Person and name of business: ____________________________________
b)   City, county, and state where such business is/was located: ____________
_______________________________________________________________
c)   Court and date of court’s order: __________________________________
_________________________________________________________________
(If additional space is needed, check here ___ and respond further on a
separate sheet.)
5)   Location of adult entertainment establishment:
Street address: ______________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________
Mailing address (if different): _____________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________
Phone number: _______________________________________________________
Legal description of property:_____________________________________________
You must attach a sketch or diagram showing the configuration and total floor
space of the premises. The sketch for businesses offering activities covered by
KOC 1030.3 (2008).Section 13 and 17 must contain the information required in
those sections (configuration of booths, location of stage, location of
operator’s station(s), and the like). The sketch need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to scale and be accurate to plus or minus six
inches.
6)   Is the required fee attached? (See KOC 1030.3 (2008))       Yes       No
7)   Certification
By signing the following, I/We agree and certify:
   A. To supplement the information contained in this application, in writing
to the County Clerk, within ten working days of any change of circumstances
that renders the information false or incomplete.
   B. That the information contained herein is true, complete, and correct.
This application must be signed by each individual identified in response to
sections A, B, and C, and each of those signatures must be notarized.
         Signed:________________________________          Date:
__________________
         Notary: _______________________________   Commission expires:
___________________
         Signed:________________________________          Date:
__________________
         Notary: _______________________________   Commission expires:
___________________
         Signed:________________________________          Date:
__________________
         Notary: _______________________________   Commission expires:
___________________
         Signed:________________________________          Date:
__________________
         Notary: _______________________________   Commission expires:
___________________
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
APPLICATION FOR ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
EMPLOYEE LICENSE
1.   Applicant’s full legal name:
_____________________________________________________
2.   Any other names/aliases used in last five years:
_____________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
3.   Current business/mailing address:
________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
4.   Is written proof of age (driver’s license OR a copy of your birth
certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued by a
governmental agency) attached?    Yes      No
5.   Have you been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere to a
specified criminal activity? (See KOC 1030.3 (2008) for definition of
“specified criminal activity”.)   Yes      No
If yes, then for each such conviction, guilty plea, or plea of nolo contendere,
state:
   a)   The offense:
___________________________________________________________
   b)   Court in which charged:
_________________________________________________
   c)   The date of conviction or plea:
____________________________________________
   d)   The place of conviction or plea:
____________________________________________
   e)   Date of release from confinement:
__________________________________________
(If additional space is needed, check here ___ and respond further on a
separate sheet.)
6.   Have you had an influential interest in any Adult Entertainment
Establishment that, in the past five years (and while you had such influential
interest), has been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance or has been
subject to a court order requiring closure or padlocking of the business? (See
KOC 1030.3(2008))            Yes      No
   If yes, state:
   a)   Name of business: _________________________________________________
   b)   City, County, and State where such business is/was located:
________________
   ____________________________________________________________________
   c)   Court and date of court’s order: ______________________________________
(If additional space is needed, check here _____ and respond further on a
separate sheet.)
7.   Is the required fee attached? (See KOC 1030.3 (2008)   Yes   No
8.   If you seek licensure to work in an Adult Entertainment Establishment that
is currently licensed by Daviess County, please provide the name and address of
that business:
      ________________________________________________________________________
      ________________________________________________________________________
By signing this application, you represent that the information contained
herein is true, complete, and accurate. This application must be notarized. You
must file this application in person. You are responsible to supplement the
information provided on this form, in writing to the County Clerk, within ten
working days of a change of circumstances which would render the information
originally submitted false or incomplete.
Signature: ____________________________
Date: _______________________________
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
PROVISIONAL LICENSE
TO CONTINUE OPERATING AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
ESTABLISHMENT DURING COURT CHALLENGE
      Issued: _____________ Provisional License No.
_________________________________
This PROVISIONAL LICENSE to continue operating an adult entertainment
establishment EXPIRES upon the court’s entry of a judgment in the following
lawsuit:
Case Name: __________________________________________________________________
Case Number: ________________________________________________________________
Court: ______________________________________________________________________
Name of Adult Entertainment Establishment:
_______________________________________
Address of Adult Entertainment Establishment:
______________________________________
Names of Licensee(s) on most recently issued Annual License, or names of
Applicant(s) listed on completed application:
___________________________         __________________________________
___________________________         __________________________________
___________________________         __________________________________
___________________________         __________________________________
                     Issued by: _________________________
                     County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
LICENSE TO OPERATE AN
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
                                       License No. ________________
                                       Issued: ____________________
                                       EXPIRATION DATE:
______________________________
Name of Adult Entertainment Establishment:
_____________________________________
Address of Adult Entertainment Establishment:
___________________________________
                  ___________________________________
Licencee(s): _________________________
      _________________________
      _________________________
      _________________________
      _________________________
      _________________________
      _________________________
                                       Issued by:____________________________
                                       County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
TEMPORARY LICENSE
TO CONTINUE OPERATING A PREEXISTING
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
         Issued: ______________      Temporary License No.
_____________________
This TEMPORARY LICENSE to continue operating a preexisting adult entertainment
establishment EXPIRES upon the final decision of Daviess County to deny or
grant the annual license, for which a completed application has been submitted
on
_______________________________
   Name of Adult Entertainment Establishment: _______________________________
   Address of Adult Entertainment Establishment: _____________________________
   ____________________________________________________________________
   Temporary Licence(s):   ______________________________
               ______________________________
               ______________________________
               Issued by: _____________________________________
               County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
LICENSE
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE
                        License No. ___________________________
                        Issued: _______________________________
                  EXPIRATION DATE: _________________________
Name of Licensee: _________________________________________
Address:   ______________________________________________
      ______________________________________________
                              Issued by: _______________________________
                              County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
PROVISIONAL LICENSE
TO CONTINUE EMPLOYMENT AS AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE DURING COURT CHALLENGE
      Issued: _______   Provisional License No. ____________________
This PROVISIONAL LICENSE to continue employment as an adult entertainment
establishment employee EXPIRES upon the court’s entry of a judgment in the
following lawsuit:
Case Name: ____________________________________
Case Number: __________________________________
Court: ________________________________________
Name of Licensee: _________________________________________
Address:       ___________________________________________
         ___________________________________________
                              Issued by: _________________________________
                              County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
 
DAVIESS COUNTY, KENTUCKY
TEMPORARY LICENSE
TO WORK AS AN
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE
IN A LICENSED ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
         Issued: ______________   Temporary License
No.   ________________________
   This TEMPORARY LICENSE to work in a licensed adult entertainment
establishment        EXPIRES upon the final decision of Daviess County to deny
or grant the annual license, for which a completed application has been
submitted on
 __________________________
   Name of Temporary Licensee:   ______________________________________________
   Address:   ________________________________________________________________
   Name of Licensed Adult Entertainment Establishment:
______________________________
   Address of Licensed Adult Entertainment Establishment:
____________________________
                     _____________________________________________________
                              Issued by: _________________________________
                              County Clerk, Daviess County, Kentucky
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Wearing masks or hoods in public
   
130.02   Nudity in public places
Smoking
   
130.15   Declaration of policy
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
130.18   Places smoking is not regulated
   
130.19   Posting of signs
   
130.20   Enforcement
   
130.21   Effective date
Social Responsibility
   
130.35   Definitions
   
130.36   Prohibitions; presumptions
   
130.37   Reservation of legal options
Curfew
   
130.50   Adoption of subchapter; preamble
   
130.51   Owensboro Municipal Code on curfew repealed; new curfew law enacted
   
130.52   Definitions
   
130.53   Parental responsibilities
   
130.54   Responsible parental conduct; defenses
   
130.55   Enforcement
   
130.56   Beyond parental control petition; defense to prosecution
   
130.57   Mandatory review
   
130.58   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 WEARING MASKS OR HOODS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All walks, alleys, streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes,
roads, highways, or other ways or thoroughfares dedicated to public use or
owned or maintained by public authority; all grounds and buildings owned,
leased, or operated for the use of organizations enjoying all tax-exempt
privileges as a charitable use in Daviess County, Kentucky, but outside the
corporate limits of the City of Owensboro.
   (B)   Wearing hoods or masks in a public place. No person or persons shall,
while wearing any hood, mask, or device whereby a substantial portion of the
face is hidden or covered so as to conceal the identity of the wearer, enter,
be, or appear in any public place within the county, but outside the corporate
limits of the City of Owensboro.
   (C)   Wearing hoods or masks on the property of another. No person or
persons shall, while wearing any hood, mask, or device whereby a substantial
portion of the face is hidden or covered so as to conceal the identity of the
wearer, demand entrance or admission, enter, or come upon or into, or be upon
or in the premises, enclosure, or house of any other person in the county, but
outside the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro, unless he or she shall
have first obtained the written permission of the owner and the occupant of
such property.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the provisions of
divisions (B) and (C) above:
      (1)   Any person under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Any person wearing traditional holiday costumes in season;
      (3)   Any person using masks in theatrical productions including use in
Mardi Gras celebrations and masquerade balls;
      (4)   Any person lawfully engaged in trades or employment or in a
sporting activity where a mask or facial covering is worn for the purpose of
ensuring the physical safety of the wearer, or because of the nature of the
occupation, trade, or professional or sporting activity; or
      (5)   Any person wearing a gas mask in drills, exercises, or emergencies.
   (E)   Declaration of emergency. The County Fiscal Court hereby declares that
an emergency does exist and pursuant to the provisions of KRS 67.078(2), and
suspends the requirements of KRS 67.077.
   (F)   Effective date. This section becomes effective immediately upon
passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC 1020.1, passed 10-28-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in
the county, but outside the corporate limits of the City of Owensboro, in such
a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area, anus,
vulva, or genitals, or any simulation thereof, or for any female to appear in
such a manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point, or
simulation thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of
the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of
the human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing
suit, or other wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or
in part.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE as used herein shall be defined the same as “public
place” in KRS 525.010.
   (C)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 1030.1 (94), passed 3-30-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
SMOKING
§ 130.15 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   In order to promote the general welfare, it is the declared purpose of this
subchapter to prohibit smoking in all enclosed public places that allow persons
under the age of 18 to enter.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls, windows, or doors, which extend from the floor to the
ceiling.
   INDEPENDENTLY VENTILATED. The ventilation system of the enclosed smoking
area in a building and the ventilation system of the non-smoking area in the
remaining portions of the building do not have a connection which allows the
mixing of air into the smoking and non-smoking areas of the building.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, but not for pecuniary gain, and which only
sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. The organization has
been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club
under 29 U.S.C. § 501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being used for a
function to which the general public is invited. A private residence is not a
PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or a health care
facility.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
§ 130.17 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   A person is prohibited from smoking in all enclosed public places that allow
persons under the age of 18 to enter.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 PLACES SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provision of §
130.17:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a childcare, adult day care,
or a health care facility;
   (B)   Facilities that do not permit minors under the age of 18 to enter;
   (C)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms;
   (D)   Private clubs; provided, that when such clubs are being used for
functions to which persons under the age of 18 are allowed to enter, the
prohibitions set out in §
130.17 shall apply; or
   (E)   Independently ventilated enclosed public areas where persons under the
age of 18 are not allowed to enter.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
§ 130.19 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or symbols shall be conspicuously posted at each
entrance utilized by the public entering and exiting public places where
smoking is prohibited by this subchapter.
   (B)   Signs stating that persons under the age of 18 are not allowed to
enter and that smoking is permitted shall be posted at each entrance utilized
by the public entering and exiting public places where smoking is permitted by
this subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
§ 130.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Applicable law enforcement agencies, fire departments, the Green River
District Health Department, and any other person designated by the County
Fiscal Court shall have the authority to enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this subchapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the City of Owensboro and the county.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with any of the authorized persons listed above.
   (D)   The Health Department, Fire Department, or their designees, while in
an establishment performing otherwise legal inspections, shall inspect for
compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Owners, managers, or operators of establishments regulated by this
subchapter shall inform the person seen violating this subchapter of the
requirements of this subchapter. In the event an owner, manager, or operator of
an establishment regulated by this subchapter observes a person violating this
subchapter, he or she shall direct the person in violation to extinguish the
smoking material.
      (1)   In the event the person violating this subchapter complies with
this directive, no violation shall exist for the owner, manager, or operator.
In the event an owner, manager, or operator of an establishment regulated by
this subchapter observes a person violating this subchapter and fails to
immediately direct the person in violation to extinguish the item being smoked,
the owner, manager, or operator failing to take appropriate steps required by
this subchapter shall be in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   In the event the person violating this subchapter fails or refuses
to comply with this directive, the owner, manager, or operator directing the
person violating this subchapter shall take immediate and reasonable steps to
obtain the removal of the person from the premises.
      (3)   In the event all duties required under this section are satisfied
yet the person violating this subchapter persists in his or her violation, and/
or refuses to vacate the premises on which the violation occurred, the owner,
manager, or operator shall immediately contact one or more of the agencies or
departments authorized above to enforce this subchapter informing the agency or
department of the circumstances of the violation.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any person
aggrieved by a failure to comply with this subchapter, including violations on
the part of an owner, operator, or manager in control of a public place covered
by this subchapter, may bring legal action to enforce this subchapter, either
by civil action seeking injunctive relief or by criminal complaint in a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
§ 130.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective January 1, 2006.
(Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005)
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
§ 130.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits, or wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
0.005% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes
either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   GATHERING. A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   HOUSEHOLD or PREMISES. Any home, apartment, condominium, premises, or other
dwelling unit or meeting room or hall, including the yard and curtilage of such
household or premises which are owned, rented, leased, or under the control of
the person or persons responsible for the party, regardless of whether such
premises are occupied on a permanent or temporary basis, or merely occupied as
a premises for a social function.
   LEGAL GUARDIANS.
      (1)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
step-parent of another person.
   PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire,
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
      (2)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
      (3)   The cost of repairing any government equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at,
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
      (4)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. KOC 1010.8 (2009), passed 7-2-2009)
§ 130.36 PROHIBITIONS; PRESUMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps include: controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering;
and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to consume
alcohol, except as permitted by statute. A person under the age of 21 years is
presumed to have consumed alcohol if he or she has an alcohol concentration of
0.02 or more as measured by a scientifically reliable test or tests of a sample
of the person’s breath or blood taken within two hours of the initial contact
by a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian, as permitted by KRS 530.070(1)a.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any Commonwealth Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control licensee at any premises regulated by the Department
of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
(Ord. KOC 1010.8 (2009), passed 7-2-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS.
   The County Attorney, in the name of the commonwealth, shall prosecute
violations of this subchapter and may recover the response costs associated
with enforcement through all remedies or procedures provided by statute,
ordinance, or law. This subchapter shall not limit the authority of peace
officers to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of conduct
regulated by this subchapter, nor shall it limit the commonwealth’s ability to
initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same.
(Ord. KOC 1010.8 (2009), passed 7-2-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.50 ADOPTION OF SUBCHAPTER; PREAMBLE.
   The official report tendered by the Curfew Subcommittee to the Community
Task Force for submission to the Owensboro Board of Commissioners and the
County Fiscal Court, as well as the recitals set forth in the preamble of the
ordinance codified herein, be and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth in the operative provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.51 OWENSBORO MUNICIPAL CODE ON CURFEW REPEALED; NEW CURFEW LAW ENACTED.
   Section 17-1 of the Owensboro Municipal Code entitled “Curfew for Minors”,
which section constitutes the existing juvenile curfew ordinance for the City
of Owensboro is hereby repealed in its entirely and there is adopted in its
place, a new § 17-l of the Owensboro Municipal Code, entitled “Parental
Responsibility for Minors”, which shall hereafter replace the repealed § 17-1,
and that Ordinance KOC 1011.1 is hereby repealed in its entirety and there is
adopted in its place a new Ordinance KOC 1011.1 of the County Code of
Ordinances, entitled “Parental Responsibility for Minors”, which shall
hereafter read as follows.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to prevent conduct in violation of this
subchapter; provided, that the parent or guardian must have actual or
constructive knowledge of the offending conduct, that is, the parent or
guardian must actually know that the minor in his or her custody is violating
this subchapter, or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent
parent or guardian should have known that the conduct of the minor was in
violation of this subchapter.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
human-made or natural disaster, automobile accident, or any situation,
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   MINOR. Any unemancipated person under 18 years of age (17 or under).
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given or directed by
order of a court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access and includes, but is not limited to, highways, streets, alleyways,
transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks, places of
business, playgrounds, hallways, and lobbies and other common areas of
apartment houses, hotels, hospitals, office buildings, shops, stores,
restaurants, and other similar commercial establishments.
   REASONABLE NECESSITY. That which an ordinarily prudent person would consider
rational, just, and appropriate under the same or similar circumstances.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or to linger upon or in any public place.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.53 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   A parent shall not allow any minor in his or her lawful custody to be
or remain in or upon a public place in the City of Owensboro or the county
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. during any day of the week, under
circumstances not constituting one or more of the exceptions enumerated in §
130.54.
   (B)   Any parent who fails to comply with division (A) above shall be guilty
of a violation as provided in §
130.56.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.54 RESPONSIBLE PARENTAL CONDUCT; DEFENSES.
   It shall be not considered a violation of this subchapter, and it shall be a
defense to any prosecution under §
130.53(B) if during the event and time in question, the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of such
minor;
   (C)   When the minor, who is a duly-authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the City of Owensboro or the county for the
purpose of passing through, by direct route, from one location to an other,
either within or out of the city or county, including all minors that may also
be within the vehicle;
   (D)   Involved in an emergency;
   (E)   Engaged in any lawful employment activity, or going to or returning
home from any lawful employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (F)   When in the case of reasonable necessity, said minor is on an errand
at the direction of his or her parent or guardian, without any detour or stop;
   (G)   When in the case of other reasonable necessity, but only after such
minor’s parent or guardian has communicated to the County Sheriff’s Office or
the Owensboro Police Department the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity;
   (H)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of the minor’s next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a state or local law enforcement officer;
   (I)   When attending an official school, religious, recreational, or other
organized activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the county or City of
Owensboro, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, recreational, or other organized
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the county or the City of
Owensboro, a civic organization, or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for said minor;
   (J)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the U.S. Constitution,
such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the right of
assembly; or
   (K)   When authorized by permit issued by the County Judge/Executive or the
City Manager, as appropriate, in cases of reasonable necessity involving more
minors than city or county festivals, fairs, expositions, or other organized
may reasonably be dealt with on an individual basis (e.g., celebrations or
memorials; school, church, civic event, or other recreational events of a
special nature). The County Judge/Executive or the City Manager, as the case
may be, shall publicly advertise any permit sufficiently in advance of the
event or occasion, through the news media, schools, or other appropriate
agencies. The permit shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public place permitted, and the period of time involved, not to extend more
than one hour beyond the time for termination of the activity, and the reason
why the regulation (or permit) is reasonably necessary. A copy of the permit
shall be forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement agency in advance of the
date of the activity or event in question.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before proceeding with any enforcement action under this subchapter, a
law enforcement officer, upon finding any minor in or upon a public place,
during a time period not authorized herein, may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name, age, and the name and address
of his or her parent.
   (B)   If the law enforcement officer determines or has reasonable cause to
believe that the minor does not meet any of the permitted conditions provided
in §
130.54, the law enforcement officer shall issue a citation or when necessary,
cause a warrant summons to issue against said minor’s parents for violation of
§
130.53(B) and may take into custody as evidence of the offense the minor and/or
take the minor to his or her home or direct the minor to proceed immediately to
his or her home. The law enforcement officer shall, at the time of the issuance
of the citation or warrant summons, notify the offending parent(s) of his, her,
or their right to file a beyond control petition in defense of any prosecution
hereunder, as set forth in §
130.56(B).
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.56 BEYOND PARENTAL CONTROL PETITION; DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION.
   (A)   It shall constitute a complete defense to any prosecution under §
130.53(B) if, at the time of issuance of the citation or warrant summons, the
offending parent or spouse has an active beyond control petition pending in the
County District Court.
   (B)   Any parent issued a citation or served a warrant summons by a law
enforcement officer of violation of §
130.53(B) may, within 48 hours thereof, cause a beyond control petition to be
initiated against the minor. If the parent obtains a beyond control petition in
good faith within the 48-hour time period and the parent fully participates and
cooperates in the proceeding against said minor, the filing of the beyond
control petition shall constitute a complete defense to any prosecution for
violating §
130.53(B).
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.57 MANDATORY REVIEW.
   Within 24 months after the effective date of this subchapter, the County
Judge/Executive and the City Manager shall review this subchapter and report
and make recommendations to their respective legislative bodies concerning the
effectiveness of, and continuing need for, this subchapter.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.58 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately from and after its adoption
and publication in accordance with KRS Ch. 424.
(Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
130.01(B) or (C) shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, and shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $250, and/or imprisoned for a
period of not longer than 90 days.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
130.02 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
and/or imprisonment as provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes for a Class B
misdemeanor.
   (D)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited and
does not comply with a request to cease smoking may be guilty of a violation,
punishable by a fine not exceeding $50.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
130.15 through
130.21 may be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation within a one-year
period; or
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $100 for each additional violation within
one year.
      (3)   Violation of §§
130.15 through
130.21 is declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated by the city,
county, or its designated agents by restraining order, preliminary and
permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The city and county
may recover the reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking
abatement of this nuisance.
      (4)   Each day on which a violation of §§
130.15 through
130.21 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (E)   Violations of §
130.36 shall be punishable, on a first offense, by a mandatory minimum fine of
$100, with neither fine nor costs suspended, and, on second and subsequent
offenses, by a fine of $200, plus costs, with neither fine nor costs suspended.
   (F)   Any parent found to be in violation of §
130.53(B), for whom there is no available defense to prosecution, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each defense.
(Ord. KOC 1020.1, passed 10-28-1980; Ord. KOC 1030.1 (94), passed 3-30-1994;
Ord. 1011.1, passed 5-19-1999; Ord. KOC 450.1 (2005), passed 12-15-2005; Ord.
KOC 1010.8 (2009), passed 7-2-2009)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE AND RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   FLOODS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE AND RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of the Commonwealth Residential Code
   
150.02   Adoption of the Commonwealth Building Code
   
150.03   Codes on file with the Fiscal Court Clerk’s office
   
150.04   Effective date
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF THE COMMONWEALTH RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The 2002 Commonwealth Residential Code, and any subsequent editions thereto,
be and is hereby adopted as the code of the county, but outside the corporate
limits of the Cities of Owensboro and Whitesville, for regulating the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of one- and
two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories in height in
the county, but outside the corporate limits of the Cities of Owensboro and
Whitesville.
(Ord. KOC C.7 (2003), passed 2-20-2003)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF THE COMMONWEALTH BUILDING CODE.
   The 2002 Commonwealth Building Code, and any subsequent editions thereto, be
and is hereby adopted as the code of the county, but outside the corporate
limits of the Cities of Owensboro and Whitesville, for commercial dwellings.
(Ord. KOC C.7 (2003), passed 2-20-2003)
§ 150.03 CODES ON FILE WITH THE FISCAL COURT CLERK’S OFFICE.
   The 2002 Commonwealth Residential Code, and any subsequent editions thereto,
and the 2002 Commonwealth Building Code, and any subsequent editions thereto,
are located in the County Fiscal Court Clerk’s office and are made a part
hereof and are the same as if fully written herein.
(Ord. KOC C.7 (2003), passed 2-20-2003)
§ 150.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and publication.
(Ord. KOC C.7 (2003), passed 2-20-2003)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Creation of subdivision street lighting district
   
151.03   Annual assessment procedure
   
151.04   Recording of memorandum of assessment
   
151.05   Replacement and repair cost
   
151.06   Obligations of the County Fiscal Court
   
151.07   Conformance with the zoning chapter
   
151.08   Conformance with public utility regulatory requirements
   
151.09   Discontinuance of service
   
151.10   Lighting in areas other than single-family residential subdivisions
   
151.11   Effective date
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INITIAL SERVICE PAYMENT. The total charges by the utility provider made
pursuant to its approved tariff for street lighting within a subdivision street
lighting district for a period of one year plus the period from the date on
which the street lighting service is energized through the end of that calendar
year.
   LOT. A lot created by a major subdivision plat under the subdivision
regulations of the Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission of the county.
   LOT OWNER. All the owners in fee simple absolute of a lot within a
subdivision.
   OWNER/DEVELOPER. The owner or owners in fee simple absolute of each lot in a
subdivision in which no lots have been sold or conveyed since the date of
recordation of the plat creating the subdivision.
   PETITIONING LOT OWNERS. All the owners in fee simple of at least 70% of all
lots within a subdivision. An owner/developer is also a PETITIONING LOT OWNER.
   STREET LIGHTING AGREEMENT. An agreement between a utility provider and an
owner/developer or petitioning lot owners which:
      (1)   States the desire of the owner/developer or petitioning lot owners
to create a subdivision street lighting district;
      (2)   States the conditions of the installation, service, maintenance,
and energy cost of street lights to be provided by the utility provider under
the terms of its approved tariffs;
      (3)   Incorporates by reference the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   States the initial service payment required of the owner/developer
or the petitioning lot owners in the subdivision;
      (5)   States the date on which street lighting service will be energized;
      (6)   Identifies the geographical limits of the proposed subdivision
street lighting district with a plat prepared as provided in §
151.02(B);
      (7)   Identifies the lot owner of each lot included within the proposed
subdivision street lighting district; and
      (8)   Is otherwise in a form acceptable to the county.
   SUBDIVISION. A major subdivision containing no less than five lots and as
defined under the subdivision regulations of the Owensboro Metropolitan
Planning Commission of the county, used for single-family residential purposes.
   SUBDIVISION STREET LIGHTING DISTRICT. A subdivision street lighting district
created by resolution of the County Fiscal Court, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
    UTILITY PROVIDER. A utility as defined in KRS 278.010(3) which provides
retail electric service to citizens and residents of the county, who seek to
form a street lighting district under this chapter.
   UTILITY SERVICE CONTRACT. A contract between the utility provider and the
County Fiscal Court, providing for street lighting service to a subdivision
street lighting district created under this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.02 CREATION OF SUBDIVISION STREET LIGHTING DISTRICT.
   (A)   General requirements. The Fiscal Court shall establish a subdivision
street lighting district and an assessment to pay the cost of street lighting
in a subdivision street lighting district, other than the initial service
payment, upon the request in a petition of lot owners representing at least 70%
of the platted lots within a subdivision (petitioning lot owners), accompanied
by a street lighting agreement properly executed by the petitioning lot owners
or their duly-appointed agent; provided, that the petitioning lot owners shall
also comply with all other requirements of this section and this chapter.
   (B)   Defining the district. The Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission
shall determine the appropriate boundaries for a proposed subdivision street
lighting district upon the request of one or more lot owners within the
subdivision for which the subdivision street lighting district is proposed. The
Owensboro Metropolitan Planning Commission shall then prepare a plat showing
the proposed subdivision street lighting district, and that plat shall be
attached to any petition requesting creation of a subdivision street lighting
district and to the street lighting agreement for that subdivision.
   (C)   Petition procedure. A petition in the form provided by the Fiscal
Court requesting street lighting service under the terms of this chapter shall
be circulated among lot owners in a subdivision for which the subdivision
street lighting district is proposed. The petition shall provide space for each
lot owner in the subdivision to sign and indicate his or her preference on the
question of whether the proposed subdivision street lighting district should be
created. Once a petition has been returned to the Fiscal Court, there shall be
no changes in the preferences recorded thereon, and the petition shall clearly
state the same. The petition may incorporate the terms of a street lighting
agreement or appoint one or more agents to sign a street lighting agreement on
behalf of the petitioning lot owners. All signatures on the petition must be
acknowledged before a notary public. The petition shall also reflect that it
has been reviewed for correctness and accuracy by the utility provider and any
agent of the petitioning lot owners.
   (D)   Filing of petitions. The petition for creation of the proposed street
lighting district must be filed with the Fiscal Court within 90 days after it
is obtained from the office of the Fiscal Court. However, the Fiscal Court or
the utility provider may, in its discretion for good cause shown, extend the
time for filing of the petition an additional 30 days for a total of 120 days
when a request for such an extension is made to the Fiscal Court or the utility
provider before the expiration of the original 90 days.
   (E)   Action of petition. If 70% of the lot owners in the proposed district
sign the petition and indicate a preference in favor of a subdivision street
lighting district, upon presentation of the petition, the Fiscal Court shall,
by resolution:
      (1)   Declare the establishment of a subdivision street lighting
district;
      (2)   Direct that the cost of the proposed street lighting, maintenance,
and electric energy services be annually assessed and apportioned among the
property owners as provided herein; and
      (3)   Direct that such pro-rated costs be reflected on the tax bills
owing on each parcel of land within the subdivision street lighting district as
provided in §
151.03.
   (F)   Initial service payment. Each petitioning lot owner shall tender
payment to the utility provider for his or her pro rata share of the initial
service payment on or before the date on which street lighting service is
energized. The pro rata share of the initial service payment due from each lot
owner who is not a petitioning lot owner and from each petitioning lot owner
who fails to make advance payment of that amount shall be an assessment against
the lot of that lot owner, shall constitute a lien against that lot, and shall
be added to the lot owner’s next county ad valorem real property tax bill
unless earlier paid.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.03 ANNUAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   On or before March 1 of each year, the utility provider shall inform the
Fiscal Court in writing of the utility provider’s total charges to provide
street lighting in each subdivision street lighting district in the following
calendar year. The Fiscal Court shall cause that amount to be assessed pro rata
against the owners of lots in the subdivision street lighting district as of
that date, and the pro rata amount of the assessment shall become a lien
against each lot and shall be included on the next county property tax bill to
the lot owner.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.04 RECORDING OF MEMORANDUM OF ASSESSMENT.
   If the Fiscal Court creates a subdivision street lighting district pursuant
to this chapter, it shall require the subdivision street lighting agreement for
that district to be recorded in the office of the County Clerk to give notice
to all successive owners of property within such subdivision of the assessment
and lien against the subdivision lots for the expense of establishing,
maintaining, and operating the subdivision street lighting district.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.05 REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR COST.
   Any necessary replacement or repair costs resulting from loss or damage to
the utility provider’s property as a result of carelessness, neglect, misuse,
vandalism, or mischief by a third party, or by other accident shall be borne by
the utility provider or the person whose acts resulted in such loss or damage.
If, in the opinion of the utility provider, the level of loss or damage to its
property resulting from any of the foregoing causes becomes extraordinary, the
utility provider may, upon notice to all affected lot owners, petition the
Fiscal Court for a special assessment to provide for the payment of the costs
so incurred.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.06 OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTY FISCAL COURT.
   The County Fiscal Court shall have no obligations under this chapter or
under any utility service agreement except the obligation to make any
assessment as required in this chapter to collect the assessment in accordance
with the customary procedures for collecting county ad valorem real property
taxes and to pay any amounts collected to the utility provider within a
reasonable time after such amounts are collected. The ultimate responsibility
for payment of the charges of the utility provider for street lighting service
shall rest with each lot owner in each subdivision included within a
subdivision street lighting.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.07 CONFORMANCE WITH THE ZONING CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not be read or construed to amend
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, and all street lighting installations
shall conform with
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.08 CONFORMANCE WITH PUBLIC UTILITY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   Service by the utility provider to a street lighting district shall be
governed by its approved tariff. This chapter shall not be read or construed to
limit or interfere with the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Public Service
Commission.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.09 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The utility provider shall not discontinue service to a subdivision street
lighting district except in accordance with its approved tariff and the laws
and regulations governing public utilities in the commonwealth, and the Fiscal
Court shall be given the notice due a customer under such tariffs, laws, and
regulations before service to a subdivision street lighting district is
discontinued. Service to a subdivision street lighting district shall not be
disconnected for nonpayment if the Fiscal Court is performing its obligations
under this agreement.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.10 LIGHTING IN AREAS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Street lighting in areas other than single-family residential subdivisions
shall be permitted only:
   (A)   Upon final approval by the Fiscal Court of the street lighting
agreement entered into between the property owners within the proposed street
lighting district and the utility provider; and
   (B)   Upon compliance with the applicable standards in this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
§ 151.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon signature, recordation,
and publication.
(Ord. KOC 610.1 (92), passed 6-11-1992)
CHAPTER 152: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
   
Appendix: Comprehensive plan regulations
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 100.187 and KRS 100.193, the County
Fiscal Court adopts § 1 - Goals and Objectives as approved by the Owensboro
Metropolitan Planning Commission on September 13, 2012, a copy of which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein as an Appendix and is incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   This chapter becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. 910.5 (2012), passed 11-15-2012; Ord. 910.6 (2017), passed 10-19-2017)
APPENDIX: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REGULATIONS
Click_here_to_view_Comprehensive_Plan_Regulations_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 154: FLOODS
Section
   
154.01   Assurances to the Federal Insurance Administration
   
154.02   Reaffirming resolution relating to flood insurance
§ 154.01 ASSURANCES TO THE FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   The Fiscal Court hereby assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it
will take legislative action as follows:
   (A)   Maintain in force for those areas, adequate land use, and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in § 1910 Subpart A of the National Flood Insurance Regulations;
   (B)   Take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to
carry out the objectives of the program. Such actions will include but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Assisting the Federal Insurance Administrator, at his or her
request, in delineating the limits of the floodplain having special flood
hazard on available local maps of sufficient scale to identify the location of
the building sites;
      (2)   After flood insurance is made available, furnishing representatives
of the National Flood Insurers’ Association (also appropriate federal or state
agencies, upon request) information concerning new or substantially-improved
structures within the area of special flood hazard. This information will
include floor elevations and, if there is a basement, the distance between the
first floor and the bottom of the lowest opening where water flowing on the
ground will enter;
      (3)   Cooperating with federal, state, and local agencies which undertake
to study, survey, map, and identify floodprone areas as well as cooperating
with neighboring jurisdictions with respect to adjoining floodplains in order
to prevent aggravation of the flooding problem; and
      (4)   Providing the name of the individual and the office that will be
responsible for furnishing the first floor elevation information.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court hereby appoints the Owensboro Metropolitan Planning
Commission and its agents with the responsibility, authority, and means to
implement the commitment made herein.
(Res. passed 4-6-1973)
§ 154.02 REAFFIRMING RESOLUTION RELATING TO FLOOD INSURANCE.
   (A)   The resolution dated April 6, 1973, a copy of which is attached to the
ordinance codified herein and is adopted as though fully written herein, be and
hereby is reaffirmed in all particulars, pursuant to the authority of KRS Ch.
100 and KRS 67.084.
   (B)   This section becomes effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
(Ord. KOC 960.1, passed 8-21-1979)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning regulations incorporated into code
   
155.02   Zoning amendments adopted by reference
   Appendix: Zoning regulations
§ 155.01 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED INTO CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS Ch. 100, the Owensboro Metropolitan
Zoning Ordinance is hereby adopted.
   (B)   A copy of said zoning ordinance is attached and is hereby incorporated
into this code as an Appendix to this chapter.
(Ord. KOC 920.2 (04), passed 2-5-2004)
§ 155.02 ZONING AMENDMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All amendments to the Owensboro Metropolitan Zoning Ordinance are hereby
adopted. Copies of all ordinance amendments can be found in County Fiscal Court
Clerk’s office and are made a part hereof and are the same as if fully written
herein.
(Ord. KOC 921.666 (2013), passed 3-21-2013; Ord. KOC 921.669 (2014), passed 6-
5-2014; Ord. KOC 921.670 (2016), passed 4-7-2016; Ord. KOC 921.671 (2017),
passed 6-1-2017; Ord. KOC 921.672 (2017), passed 8-3-2017; Ord. KOC 921.674
(2019), passed 5- -2019; Ord. KOC 921.677 (2022), 3-8-2022; Ord. KOC 921.682
(2023), passed 8-24-2023; Ord. KOC 921.684 (2024), passed 9-16-2024)
APPENDIX: ZONING REGULATIONS
Click_here_to_view_Zoning_Ordinance_in_a_PDF_document.
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
      
V.   STREET AND ALLEY RENAMINGS
      
VI.   ASSESSMENT/APPORTIONMENT WARRANTS
      
VII.   REZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date   Description
             Passed
KOC 220.5    7-6-   Establishing and levying a special ad valorem tax upon all property for six
             1982   years with the rate established to be reduced as of January 1, 1988
150.5 (94)   12-28- Authorizing the County Fiscal Court and Mayor of the City of Owensboro
             1994   establishing a Board of Ethics
150.6 (95)   3-1-   Amending Ordinance 150.5 (94) reducing the Board of Ethics from five members
             1995   to three members
220.14       12-17- Approving the execution of an interlocal agreement in connection with the
             1996   Sterling Richards Project
                    Authorizing the execution of an interlocal agreement between the City of
150.7 (97)   4-16-  Owensboro and the County Fiscal Court dissolving the City’s Building Code
             1997   Appeals Board and establishing in its place a five-member City and County
                    Building Code Appeals Board
-            7-9-   Agreement between the county and BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. providing
             1997   a local exchange telephone service
             2-3-   Agreement between the City of Owensboro Board of Commissions, the County
-            1998   Fiscal Court, and Owensboro Mercy Health System, Inc. pertaining to emergency
                    ambulance services
-            2-17-  Agreement between the County Fiscal Court, the City of Owensboro, and Yellow
             1998   Enterprise System Inc. for ambulance services
KOC 331.1    6-5-   Interlocal agreement between the City of Owensboro and the County Fiscal
(2001)       2001   Court establishing a county- wide disaster and emergency preparedness,
                    response, and recovery program
                    Interlocal agreement between the City of Owensboro, the Owensboro City
150.8 (2002) 6-17-  Utility Commission, the Regional Water Resource Agency, and the county
             2002   establishing, operating, and administering a county-wide geographic
                    information system
             10-28- Interlocal agreement between the County Fiscal Court and the City of
850.4 (2003) 2003   Owensboro authorizing the surrender of ODCH’s interest in Owensboro Medical
                    Health System, Inc. (OMHS)
             4-7-   Amended agreement between the City of Owensboro Board of Commissioners, the
-            2005   County Fiscal Court, and Owensboro Mercy Health System Inc. pertaining to an
                    emergency ambulance service
KOC 860.3    4-7-   Interlocal agreement between the City of Owensboro and the County Fiscal
(05)         2005   Court increasing the number of members of the Medical Control Authority
KOC 860.5    5-19-  Amending the emergency medical service and ambulance agreement in Ordinance
(05)         2005   860.3
KOC 150.9    7-20-  Approving an amendment to the interlocal agreement between Ohio County,
(2006)       2006   Muhlenburg County, Hancock County, Daviess County, and McLean County
                    pertaining to Green River Regional Industrial Development Authority, Inc.
             10-15- Second addendum to an interlocal agreement between Ohio County, Muhlenburg
-            2006   County, Hancock County, Daviess County, and McLean County pertaining to Green
                    River Regional Industrial Development Authority, Inc.
KOC 860.6    2-14-  Approving a pre- hospital emergency medical ambulance service agreement
(2008)       2008   between the City of Owensboro, the county, and Yellow Enterprise System, Inc.
KOC 220.23   4-16-  Authorizing and directing the retention of 0.35% of all occupational license
(2009)       2009   fees due and payable to the county from the salaries, wages and other
                    compensation to be paid to the employees of Field Packing Company, LLC
KOC 150.11   3- -   Authorizing an interlocal agreement between the county, the City of
(2010)       2010   Owensboro, and the Industrial Development Authority for the acquisition,
                    design, and construction of a downtown Convention Center
-            7-4-   An agreement between Western Kentucky Kentucky Minderals, Inc. and Anthony V.
             2012   Lanham altering and re- rerouting Free Silver Road
                    Authorizing and establishing a development area for economic and
                    infrastructure development (Daviees County Development Area No. 1);
KOC 220.26   7-17-  establishing percentage of increment that county will authorize each year;
(2014)       2014   approving and authorizing the amount of increments annually; and to take
                    other actions as necessary, including the authority to enter into local
                    development area and impose assessment fees on newly created jobs within the
                    development area
KOC 220.27   7-17-  Authorizing and directing the rebate of 1% occupational license fees from the
(2014)       2014   salaries, wages and other compensation to be paid to the new employees of
                    Sazerac North America
KOC 220.28   7-17-  Authorizing and directing the retention of 0.35% of all occupational license
(2014)       2014   fees due and payable from the salaries, wages and other compensation to be
                    paid to the new employees of EPC- Columbia, Inc.
KOC 150.9    12-18- Approving an amendment to the interlocal cooperation agreement of February
(2014)       2014   26, 1999 which created a multi-county regional industrial development
                    authority
KOC 860.7    2-16-  Approving a revised emergency medical service and ambulance agreement between
(2015)       2015   the county, the city of Owensboro, and Procarent d/b/a Yellow Ambulance
                    Service
                    Authorizing and establishing a development area for economic and
                    infrastructure development (Daviess County Development Area No. 1);
KOC 220.26   2-25-  establishing the percentage of increment that the county will authorize each
(2016)       2016   year; approving and authorizing the amount of increments to be authorized
                    including the authority to enter into local development area and to impose
                    assessment fees on newly created jobs within the development area
                    Authorizing the judge/executive to make application for and, upon approval,
             6-2-   to enter into an agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security
Res. 09-2016 2016   (KOHS), to execute any documents which are deemed necessary by KOHS to
                    facilitate and administer the project and to act as the authorized
                    correspondent for this project
KOC 220.29   10-20- Authorizing and directing the rebate of 0.35% derived from the occupational
(2016)       2016   license fees imposed and levied on the salaries, wages and other compensation
9-2016           to be paid to eligible new employees of Specialty Food Group, Inc.
                    Authorizing and establishing a development area for economic and
                    infrastructure development (Daviess County Development Area No. 1);
KOC 220.26   8-3-   establishing the percentage of increment that the county will authorize each
(2017)       2017   year; approving and authorizing the amount of increments to be authorized
                    including the authority to enter into local development area and to impose
                    assessment fees on newly created jobs within the development area
                    Authorizing and direction the rebate of 0.35% of all occupational license
KOC 220.31   1-24-  fees imposed and levied on the salaries, wages and other compensation to be
(2019)       2019   paid to eligible new employees of Cabaxis, LLC, provided said corporation
                    meets the criteria set forth in its application for incentives
                    Approving an emergency medical service and ambulance agreement by and between
KOC 860.8    5-2-   the city and Mercy Ambulance of Evansville, Inc. d/b/a AMR Ambulance, the
(2019)       2019   exclusive county-wide provider of emergency ambulance services for the 9-1-
                    1 dispatch systems
KOC 220.35   9-16-  Authorizing and directing the rebate of 0.50% occupational license fees from
(2021) 09-   2021   the salaries, wages and other compensation to be paid by the new employees of
2021                Gryphon Environmental, LLC
                   
 
TABLE II: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Authorizing the execution of a deed conveying
KOC B.22 (89)   2-15-1989   certain property in the City of Owensboro to the
                            Daviess County Public Improvement Corporation
                            Lease agreement between the county and BellSouth
-               7-14-1997   Telecommunications, Inc. for the lease of equipment
                            and the purchase of services
KOC 220.21 (08) 10-16-2008  Approving a lease for the financing of an
                            Administration Building Project
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
-              4-24-1995   Amending the franchise agreement between the county
                           and Century Venture Corporation
KOC F.4 (2011) 4-17-2011   Adopting a nonexclusive franchise agreement between
                           the county and Time Warner Cable
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
620.1  8-22-  Closing a certain dedicated but unopened alley in Section C of J.L. Brown’s
       1978   River View Addition
KOC    7-10-  Closing portions of Kent and Cleveland Roads
620.2  1979
KOC    12-27- Closing county road Lover’s Lane
620.3  1979
KOC    2-26-  Closing a section of London Pike (CR 1122)
620.4  1980
KOC    3-4-   Closing a ten-foot wide unused public alley in Maceo, Kentucky
620.6  1980
KOC    9-22-  Closing a section of London Pike (CR 1122)
620.8  1981
KOC    1-5-   Closing of a public passway
620.9  1982
KOC    11-23- Closing an unopened but dedicated alley in the Martin Barbour Resubdivision
620.10 1982   of Conley’s Addition
KOC    9-15-  Closing a certain portion of a county road (formerly Kentucky Highway 279)
620.11 1983
KOC    5-2-   Closing a certain portion of Fourth Street in Stanley, Kentucky
620.12 1984
KOC    8-15-  Closing of a 50-foot street right-of-way in the Major Haycraft Subdivision,
620.13 1984   Unit 1, on Haycraft Road
KOC    8-19-  Closing a certain section of an abandoned public road across lands owned by
620.14 1986   William Lee Taylor, III and Terry W. Tyler, formerly known as Clayton Road
KOC    5-25-
620.16 1988   Closing of an abandoned portion of Bickett Road
(88)
KOC    5-2-   Closing a certain portion of two public roads and two public alleys located
620.18 1990   on the property owned by the Owensboro Grain Company
(90)
KOC    11-24- The temporary closing of segments of Mulligan Road, Hayden Lane, and Hobbs
620.22 1992   Road
(92)
KOC    7-14-  Closing of Marshall Street and Elm Street
620.23 1993
KOC    9-8-
620.24 1993   The temporary closing of segments of Hobbs Road and Macedonia Church Road
(93)
KOC    5-11-
620.25 1994   Closing a portion of Delaware Ferry Lane
(94)
KOC    5-31-
620.27 1995   Closing access to Antler Drive from U.S. Highway 231
(95)
KOC    11-8-
620.28 1995   Closing of a section of Riverside Avenue
(95)
KOC    3-6-
620.29 1996   Closing of Old Floors Lane
(95)
KOC    3-19-
620.30 1997   The temporary closing and relocation of a section of Aull Road
(97)
KOC    4-28-  Closing a portion of Marshall Street that remains open and all of Crockett
620.31 1999   Street
KOC    12-7-  Closing a section of Riverside Avenue
620.32 1999
KOC    7-17-  Closing a section of Old Newbolt Road
620.34 2001
KOC    10-18- Closing Anabelle Lane
620.35 2001
KOC    10-17-
620.36 2002   Closing two alleys in the community of Delaware
(2002)
KOC    10-17-
620.37 2002   Closing a passway in Rose Hill Subdivision
(2002)
KOC    2-1-
620.38 2005   Closing a passway on Isaac Shelby Drive
(2005)
KOC    6-21-  Closing Boone Road, French Island Spur, Jarboe Lane, Reeder Road, and Short
620.39 2012   Station Spur
(2012)
KOC    6-21-
620.40 2012   Discontinuing a portion of Keene Road
(2012)
KOC    6-21-
620.41 2012   Discontinuing Ed Foster Spur (Wellness Place)
(2012)
KOC    6-21-  Temporarily altering Free Silver Road and relocating a section of Free Silver
620.44 2012   Road
(2012)
KOC    2-7-
620.45 2013   Discontinuing a portion of Rockport Ferry Road
(2013)
KOC    8-4-
620.46 2016   Discontinuing a portion of Ratcliff Road
(2016)
KOC    9-7-
620.47 2017   Discontinuing a portion of “Old” Wayne Bridge Road
(2017)
KOC    7- -
620.48 2018   Discontinuing a portion of Pleasant Valley Road
(2018)
KOC    7-24-
620.49 2018   Discontinuing Old Lee Rudy Road
(2018)
KOC    12-6-
620.50 2018   Discontinuing a portion of "Old" Short Station Road
(2018)
KOC    12-6-
620.51 2018   Discontinuing a portion of Chambers Street
(2018)
KOC    3-5-
620.52 2019   Discontinuing a portion of Barton Avenue
(2019)
KOC    3-5-
620.53 2019   Discontinuing a portion of Riverside Avenue
(2019)
KOC    6-11-
620.54 2020   Discontinuing a portion of Old Ben Ford Road
(2020)
KOC    6-11-
620.55 2020   Discontinuing a portion of a 12-foot, public alley paralleling Church Street
(2020)
KOC    4-11-
620.56 2024   Discontinuing a portion of Fullenwider Road
(2024)
             
 
TABLE V: STREET AND ALLEY RENAMINGS
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Changing the name of Parrish Avenue from Allen
                            Street West to the intersection of Kentucky Highway
                            56 and 81, to West Parrish Avenue; and changing the
KOC 620.19 (90) 8-28-1990   names of 12th Street, 13th Street, Grimes Avenue,
                            Leitchfield Road, and New Leitchfield Road from
                            Allen Street East to the Wendell Ford Expressway,
                            to East Parrish Avenue
                            Changing the name of Leitchfield Road to KY 54 from
KOC 620.20 (92) 1-22-1992   the Wendell Ford Expressway to Thruston-Dermont
                            Road
                           
 
TABLE VI: ASSESSMENT/APPORTIONMENT WARRANTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
                              Authorizing the establishment of assessment
KOC 611.1 (2003)  4-3-2003    warrants for the Reynolds, Greenbriar, Thruston
                              Heights, and Andy Thoma Subdivision areas and
                              adjacent properties
                              Authorizing the establishment of assessment
KOC 611.2 (2003)  4-3-2003    warrants for the Brownwood Manor Subdivision area
                              and related Reid Road and Graham Lane properties
KOC 611.3 (2005)  9-1-2005    Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Hayden Park North area
                              Authorizing the establishment of assessment
KOC 611.4 (2007)  3-1-2007    warrants for the Glenn Court, Maple Heights,
                              Brown Addition, and Westerfield Drive areas
KOC 611.5 (2007)  3-1-2007    Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Thruston Highway 144 North area
KOC 611.6 (2008)  6-5-2008    Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Glennview Subdivision
KOC 611.7 (2008)  9-30-2008   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Stoneybrook Subdivision
KOC 611.8 (2011)  3-22-2011   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Broadacre Subdivision
                              Authorizing the establishment of assessment
KOC 611.9 (2011)  3-22-2011   warrants for the Daniels Lane (Vincent Station
                              Interceptor) sewer extention
                              Authorizing the establishment of assessment
KOC 611.10 (2011) 10-20-2011  warrants for the Riverside/Coast Guard Lane/
                              Highland Subdivisions
KOC 611.11 (2012) 2-2-2012    Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the North Kentucky Highway 81 area
KOC 611.12 (2015) 3-19-2015   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Locust Hills Area Subdivision
KOC 611.13 (2015) 3-19-2015   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Sunrise Drive Subdivision
KOC 611.14 (2018) 1-18-2018   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Masonville area
611.15 (2018)     9-21-2018   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Woodland South Subdivision area
KOC 611.16 (2019) 3-21-2019   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Pleasant View Estates area
KOC 611.17 (2019) 3-21-2019   Authorizing the establishment of assessment
                              warrants for the Hayden Road Neighborhood area
                             
 
TABLE VII: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed        Description
                                      Changing zoning classification of 1.870
KOC 921.667 (2013) 7-30-2013          acre tract of land located at 3830
                                      Highway 54 from A- U Urban Agriculture to
                                      B-4 General Business
                                      Changing zoning classification of 7.00
KOC 921.668 (2014) 5-1-2014           acre tract of land located at 315
                                      Worthington Road from A-U Urban
                                      Agriculture to I-1 Light Industrial
                                      Changing zoning classification of 3.811
                                      acre tract of land located at 4342, 4370,
KOC 921.669 (2014) 7-31-2014          4442 Springhill Drive from R-3MF Multi-
                                      Family Residential to B-4 General
                                      Business
                                      Changing zoning classification of a 2.096
KOC 921.670 (2015) 10-22-2015         tract of land located at 11351 and 11397
                                      US Highway 431 from A-U Urban Agriculture
                                      to B-4 General Business
                                      Changing zoning classification for a
KOC 921.673 (2019) 2-5-2019           20.150 acres tract of land located at
                                      5030 and 5060 Newbolt Road from R-1A and
                                      A-U to A-U
                                      Changing zoning classification for a
KOC 921.676 (2021) 4-15-2021          9.101 acre tract located at 2116 Daniels
                                      Lane from R-1A to R-3MF
                                      Changing zoning classification for a
KOC 921.681 (2022) 12-1-2022          6.541 acre tract of land located at 6841
                                      Highway 144 from R-1A and A-U to A-U
                                      Changing zoning classification for a
KOC 921.683        (2024)   4-25-206.826 acre tract of land located at 1324
                                      Worthington Road from A-U to B-4
                                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
18A.225                 110.38
23A.220                 30.30
24A.18                  30.30
39A to 39F              31.02
Ch. 61                  32.16,
                        32.99
61.805                  93.10
61.810                  32.64
61.870                  93.10
61.870 et seq.          10.18
61.870 to 61.884        32.68
64.091                  30.30
65.182                  31.07
65.755                  30.01
65A.030                 31.06
                        31.08,
67.077                  111.05,
                        130.01
                        31.08,
67.078(2)               111.05,
                        130.01
67.083                  31.07
67.084                  154.02
67.715                  31.07
67.750(7)               110.15
72.720                  51.07
76.231                  31.03
83A.065                 10.99
83A.090                 10.18
91A.360                 31.06
91A.390(3)              30.15,
                        31.06
Ch. 100                 154.02,
                        155.01
100.187                 153.01
100.193                 153.01
100.324                 92.17
109.056                 50.016
109.056(3)              50.016
131.010(6)              110.38
Ch. 132                 31.07
Ch. 136                 30.16
Ch. 150                 90.01,
                        90.11
152.810 through 152.930 31.04
152.830                 31.04
152.860                 31.04
152.870                 31.04
173.310                 31.07
173.395                 31.07
173.470                 31.07
173.490                 31.07
Ch. 178                 92.01
186.067(6)              70.03
189.920(11),(12)        70.01
189.940                 70.01
Ch. 198B                31.05
198B.050                31.05
198B.990                31.05
224.1-010(30)           50.017
224.40 through 224.100  50.001
224.43-315(3)           50.017
224.50 through 224.760  50.001
227.330 through 227.410 91.01
227.489                 31.05
227.530                 31.05
227A.010 et seq.        31.05
241.010(41)             110.01
241.160                 110.02
241.190                 110.02
243.033                 110.01
243.520                 110.02
244.290                 110.01
244.480                 110.01
Ch. 246                 90.01
Ch. 258                 90.14,
                        90.34
258.015                 90.07
258.085                 90.05
258.915                 90.01
258.990                 90.02,
                        90.99
278.010(3)              151.01
287.135                 30.16
Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B   110.38
Ch. 342                 110.38
413.072                 93.01
Ch. 424                 130.58
Ch. 446                 10.02
446.010(55)             10.05
523.040                 32.62,
                        32.99
525.010                 130.02
525.125                 90.03,
                        90.99
525.130                 90.99
530.070(1)a             130.36
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        4-6-1973    154.01
09-2016  6-2-2016    TSO Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                  Date Passed Code Section
                                      110.35 -
Order 1973-06-25          6-25-1973   110.37,
                                      110.99
Order 1974-01             11-28-1973  110.36
620.1                     8-22-1978   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.2                 7-10-1979   TSO Table IV
KOC 960.1                 8-21-1979   154.02
KOC 620.3                 12-27-1979  TSO Table IV
                                      111.01 -
R.3 (80)                  - -         111.06,
                                      111.99
KOC 150.1                 1-8-1980    30.15
KOC 620.4                 2-26-1980   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.6                 3-4-1980    TSO Table IV
KOC 620.7                 7-15-1980   92.35,
                                      92.36
KOC 1020.1                10-28-1980  130.01,
                                      130.99
                                      111.01 -
KOC 440.1                 11-25-1980  111.06,
                                      111.99
KOC 620.8                 9-22-1981   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.9                 1-5-1982    TSO Table IV
KOC 510.1                 4-27-1982   70.03
KOC 220.5                 7-6-1982    TSO Table I
KOC 620.10                11-23-1982  TSO Table IV
KOC 620.11                9-15-1983   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.12                5-2-1984    TSO Table IV
KOC 620.13                8-15-1984   TSO Table IV
KOC 150.2                 6-5-1986    31.08
KOC 620.14                8-19-1986   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.16 (88)           5-25-1988   TSO Table IV
KOC 132.1                 11-23-1988  91.02,
                                      91.99
KOC B.22 (89)             2-15-1989   TSO Table II
R.8 (90)                  - -         91.03,
                                      91.99
KOC 620.18 (90)           5-2-1990    TSO Table IV
KOC 620.19 (90)           8-28-1990   TSO Table V
KOC 310.1 (90)            9-11-1990   91.03,
                                      91.99
150.3                     3-13-1991   31.04
KOC 620.20 (92)           1-22-1992   TSO Table V
KOC 610.1 (92)            6-11-1992   151.01 -
                                      151.11
KOC 620.22 (92)           11-24-1992  TSO Table IV
KOC 620.23                7-14-1993   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.24 (93)           9-8-1993    TSO Table IV
1030.1 (94)               3-30-1994   130.02,
                                      130.99
1030.2 (94)               3-30-1994   110.02,
                                      110.99
C.2 (94)                  4-20-1994   91.01
KOC 620.25 (94)           5-11-1994   TSO Table IV
610.2 (94)                10-5-1994   31.03
                                      32.01,
                                      32.15,
                                      32.16,
                                      32.30 -
C.3                       12-28-1994  32.34,
                                      32.45,
                                      32.46,
                                      32.60 -
                                      32.68,
                                      32.99
150.5 (94)                12-28-1994  TSO Table I
C.4                       3-1-1995    32.34,
                                      32.60
150.6 (95)                3-1-1995    TSO Table I
-                         4-24-1995   TSO Table III
KOC 620.26 (95)           4-26-1995   92.01
KOC 620.27 (95)           5-31-1995   TSO Table IV
KOC 220.11 (95)           7-19-1995   31.07
KOC 620.28 (95)           11-8-1995   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.29 (95)           3-6-1996    TSO Table IV
                                      32.01,
                                      32.30,
C.5                       9-17-1996   32.31,
                                      32.33,
                                      32.34
220.13 (96)               9-25-1996   30.16
R.1 (96)                  10-30-1996  31.03
220.14                    12-17-1996  TSO Table I
KOC 620.30 (97)           3-19-1997   TSO Table IV
150.7 (97)                4-16-1997   TSO Table I
-                         7-9-1997    TSO Table I
KOC 350.3 (97)            7-9-1997    30.01
-                         7-14-1997   TSO Table II
-                         2-3-1998    TSO Table I
-                         2-17-1998   TSO Table I
KOC 620.31                4-28-1999   TSO Table IV
                                      130.50 -
1011.1                    5-19-1999   130.58,
                                      130.99
KOC 330.1 (99)            7-14-1999   31.02
KOC 620.32                12-7-1999   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.33 (2000)         10-24-2000  92.15 -
                                      92.20
KOC 331.1 (2001)          6-5-2001    TSO Table I
KOC 620.34                7-17-2001   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.35                10-18-2001  TSO Table IV
KOC 830.3 (2001)          12-6-2001   50.016
KOC 520.1 (2002)          1-3-2002    70.04
150.8 (2002)              6-17-2002   TSO Table I
KOC 220.15 (2002)         6-20-2002   30.30
KOC 620.36 (2002)         10-17-2002  TSO Table IV
KOC 620.37 (2002)         10-17-2002  TSO Table IV
KOC C.7 (2003)            2-20-2003   150.01 –
                                      150.04
KOC 611.1 (2003)          4-3-2003    TSO Table VI
KOC 611.2 (2003)          4-3-2003    TSO Table VI
850.4 (2003)              10-28-2003  TSO Table I
KOC 840.1 (2004)          1-22-2004   90.50 -
                                      90.52
KOC 920.2 (04)            2-5-2004    155.01
KOC 830.5 (2004)          2-19-2004   50.017
KOC 620.38 (2005)         2-1-2005    TSO Table IV
-                         4-7-2005    TSO Table I
KOC 860.3 (05)            4-7-2005    TSO Table I
272.5 (05)                5-19-2005   31.05,
                                      31.99
KOC 860.5 (05)            5-19-2005   TSO Table I
KOC 611.3 (2005)          9-1-2005    TSO Table VI
                                      130.15 -
KOC 450.1 (2005)          12-15-2005  130.21,
                                      130.99
KOC 150.9 (2006)          7-20-2006   TSO Table I
-                         10-15-2006  TSO Table I
                                      110.15 -
KOC 220.17 (2006)         11-21-2006  110.27,
                                      110.99
KOC 611.4 (2007)          3-1-2007    TSO Table VI
KOC 611.5 (2007)          3-1-2007    TSO Table VI
KOC 521.1 (2007)          9-6-2007    30.02
KOC 860.6 (2008)          2-14-2008   TSO Table I
                                      50.001 -
                                      50.018,
                                      50.030 -
                                      50.037,
                                      50.050 -
                                      50.056,
KOC 830.6 (08)            2-26-2008   50.070 -
                                      50.081,
                                      50.095 -
                                      50.097,
                                      50.110 -
                                      50.112,
                                      50.999
                                      90.30 -
KOC 1010.7 (2008)         2-26-2008   90.35,
                                      90.99
KOC 611.6 (2008)          6-5-2008    TSO Table VI
KOC 611.7 (2008)          9-30-2008   TSO Table VI
KOC 220.21 (08)           10-16-2008  TSO Table II
                                      112.01 -
KOC 1030.3 (2008)         12-18-2008  112.19,
                                      112.99
KOC 220.23 (2009)         4-16-2009   TSO Table I
                                      130.35 -
KOC 1010.8 (2009)         7-2-2009    130.37,
                                      130.99
KOC 560.1 (2009)          12-3-2009   70.01
KOC 150.11 (2010)         3- -2010    TSO Table I
KOC 611.8 (2011)          3-22-2011   TSO Table VI
KOC 611.9 (2011)          3-22-2011   TSO Table VI
KOC F.4 (2011)            4-17-2011   TSO Table III
KOC 530.13 (2011)         6- -2011    70.06,
                                      Ch. 71, Schd. I
KOC 560.2 (2011)          7-21-2011   70.01
                                      31.01,
KOC 111.4 (2011)          8-18-2011   Ch. 31 App. A,
                                      Ch. 31, App. B
KOC 611.10 (2011)         10-20-2011  TSO Table VI
KOC 611.11 (2012)         2-2-2012    TSO Table VI
KOC 150.12 (2012)         6-7-2012    30.15
KOC 620.39 (2012)         6-21-2012   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.40 (2012)         6-21-2012   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.41 (2012)         6-21-2012   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.44 (2012)         6-21-2012   TSO Table IV
-                         7-4-2012    TSO Table I
KOC 150.13 (2012)         9-20-2012   31.06
KOC 621.15 (2012)         10-18-2012  70.05
910.5 (2012)              11-15-2012  153.01
KOC 620.45 (2013)         2-7-2013    TSO Table IV
KOC 921.666 (2013)        3-21-2013   155.02
KOC 921.667 (2013)        7-30-2013   TSO Table VII
                                      90.01 -
KOC 1010.6 (2013)         10-24-2013  90.15,
                                      90.99
                                      51.01 -
KOC 630.1 (2013)          11-7-2013   51.10,
                                      51.99
KOC 411.1 (2013)          12-5-2013   110.01,
                                      110.99
KOC 121.1 (2014)          5-1-2014    33.01 -
                                      33.03
KOC 921.668 (2014)        5-1-2014    TSO Table VII
KOC 921.669 (2014)        7-31-2014   TSO Table VII
KOC 621.15 (2014)         5-15-2014   70.05
KOC 921.669 (2014)        6-5-2014    155.02
KOC 220.26 (2014)         7-17-2014   TSO Table I
KOC 220.27 (2014)         7-17-2014   TSO Table I
KOC 220.28 (2014)         7-17-2014   TSO Table I
KOC 150.9 (2014)          12-18-2014  TSO Table I
KOC 860.7 (2015)          2-16-2015   TSO Table I
KOC 611.12 (2015)         3-19-2015   TSO Table VI
KOC 611.13 (2015)         3-19-2015   TSO Table VI
KOC 620.7 (2015)          4-2-2015    92.35 -
                                      92.37
KOC 621.15 (2015)         5-21-2015   70.05
KOC 560.3 (2015)          2-16-2015   70.01
                                      51.01 -
KOC 630.1 (2015)          7-2-2015    51.10,
                                      51.99
KOC 530.13 (2015)         7-6-2015    70.06
KOC 411.1 (2015)          10-1-2015   110.01
KOC 921.670 (2015)        10-22-2015  TSO Table VII
                                      93.01 -
KOC 1-2016                2-8-2016    93.11,
                                      93.99
KOC 621.15 (2016)         2-8-2016    70.05
KOC 220.26 (2016)         2-25-2016   TSO Table I
KOC 921.670 (2016)        4-7-2016    155.01
                                      32.01,
                                      32.15,
                                      32.16,
                                      32.30 -
6-2016                    7-19-2016   32.34,
                                      32.45,
                                      32.46,
                                      32.60 -
                                      32.68,
                                      32.99
KOC 620.46 (2016)         8-4-2016    TSO Table IV
KOC 220.29 (2016); 9-2016 10-20-2016  TSO Table I
KOC 921.671 (2017)        6-1-2017    155.02
KOC 411.2 (2017)          6-1-2017    110.01
KOC 220.26 (2017)         8-3-2017    TSO Table I
KOC 921.672 (2017)        8-3-2017    155.02
KOC 620.47 (2017)         9-7-2017    TSO Table IV
KOC 621.17 (2017)         10-5-2017   70.05
KOC 910.6 (2017)          10-19-2017  153.01
KOC 520.2 (2017)          10-19-2017  70.07
KOC 611.14 (2018)         1-18-2018   TSO Table VI
KOC 620.48 (2018)         7 - -2018   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.49 (2018)         7-24-2018   TSO Table IV
611.15 (2018)             9-6-2018    TSO Table VI
KOC 620.50 (2018)         12-6-2018   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.51 (2018)         12-6-2018   TSO Table IV
KOC 220.31 (2019)         1-24-2019   TSO Table I
KOC 921.673 (2019)        2-5-2019    TSO Table VII
KOC 620.52 (2019)         3-5-2019    TSO Table IV
KOC 620.53 (2019)         3-5-2019    TSO Table IV
KOC 611.16 (2019)         3-21-2019   TSO Table VI
KOC 611.17 (2019)         3-21-2019   TSO Table VI
KOC 860.8 (2019)          5-2-2019    TSO Table I
KOC 921.674 (2019)        5- -2019    155.02
KOC 220.32 (2019)         6-6-2019    110.17
KOC 620.54 (2020)         6-11-2020   TSO Table IV
KOC 620.55 (2020)         6-11-2020   TSO Table IV
KOC 530.14 (2020)         7-23-2020   70.06,
                                      Ch. 71, Schd. I
KOC 621.19 (2020)         7-23-2020   70.05
KOC 220.33 (2020)         9-17-2020   110.17
KOC 921.676 (2021)        4-15-2021   TSO Table VII
KOC 220.35 (2021)         9-16-2021   TSO Table I
KOC 921.667 (2022)        3-8-2022    155.02
KOC 621.21 (2022)         4-11-2022   70.05
KOC 150.15 (2022)         10-20-2022  31.06
KOC 921.681 (2022)        12-1-2022   TSO Table VII
KOC 150.16 (2023)         4-20-2023   30.15
KOC 150.17 (2023)         4-20-2023   31.06
KOC 560.4 (2023)          4-20-2023   70.01
                                      31.01,
KOC 111.5 (2023)          8-10-2023   Ch. 31 App. A,
                                      Ch. 31, App. B
KOC 921.682 (2023)        8-24-2023   155.02
KOC 220.37 (2023)         11-14-2023  110.38
KOC 620.56 (2024)         4-11-2024   TSO Table IV
KOC 921.683 (2024)        4-25-2024   TSO Table VII
KOC 921.684 (2024)        9-16-2024   155.02
KOC 870.01 (2024)         12-5-2024   94.01 -
                                      94.08
                                     
 
