CITY OF DAWSON SPRINGS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 7-22-2025
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
DAWSON SPRINGS, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER          ASHLEE MAWDSLEY
COUNCIL MEMBER          MARK MCGREGOR
COUNCIL MEMBER          RHONDA MILLS
COUNCIL MEMBER          KENNY MITCHELL
COUNCIL MEMBER          JESSIE ROBINSON
COUNCIL MEMBER          MARTHA WOOLSEY
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                   JENNY SEWELL
CITY CLERK           MARTHA HAMBY
CITY ADMINISTRATOR      JULIE SELLERS
CHIEF OF POLICE         MIKE OPALEK
CHIEF OF FIRE           ROBERT LINTON II
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF FIRE JAMES SHERMAN
CITY ATTORNEY           BENJAMIN TALLEY
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Dawson Springs Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01". Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(52))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog or goat of any age or
sex.
(KRS 446.010(7))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Dawson Springs,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, company, partnership, joint stock company or
association.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Hopkins County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(16))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(21))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91a.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(29))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(34))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(40))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(44))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(46))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing. Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in
the English language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance or, in any way whatever, to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect; except that, the proceedings thereafter shall conform, so far as
practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by ordinances
passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, section or
division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted
shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall
adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   CITY POLICY
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”.
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body, which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. An ordinance
amending the number of legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Non-Elected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37   City Administrator
City Employees
   
31.50   City Attorney
   
31.51   Chief of Police
   
31.52   Fire Chief
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of                            , according to law; and I do
further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel
with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or
accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the State Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the
officer is elected.
      (2)   An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (3)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of the
state, which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid
at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (4)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Ch. 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under non-partisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Ch. 83A. Such ordinance shall become effective
not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election law
generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County Clerk
in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city office is
to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under non-partisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance; except that, no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by KRS Ch. 116 through 121.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on 7-15-1980, shall
continue until abolished by ordinance; except that, the offices of Mayor and
City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of the city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
or her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the Office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the Office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor
to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the Office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Ch. 32.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance, which
shall specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are non-elected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   Fire Chief; and
      (3)   Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 31.35) (Ord. 2023-16, passed 8-15-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the Office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)    No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department of Local Government a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be at grade 12 in accordance with the Personnel
Classification and Compensation Plan.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided bond in the amount of $2,000, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   The Personnel Rules and Regulations of the city (
Ch. 37) shall apply to this office.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 6-18-84-1, passed 6-18-1984)
§ 31.37 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Authorization to employ Administrator; appointment. The Mayor and City
Council of Dawson Springs are hereby authorized to employ a City Administrative
Officer. Such Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Bond. The City Administrative Officer shall furnish a bond in such
amount and with such surety as may be approved by the corporate authorities,
such bond to be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties.
The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Compensation. The City Administrative Officer shall receive such
compensation as the City Council, from time to time, establishes.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Administrator. The City Administrative Officer
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Create the agenda for and attend all meetings of the City Council
and other official Boards and Commissions as directed by the City Council.
Attend all meetings of the city except those from which the City Council
determined that attendance is not required because of a conflict or other
reason. The City Administrator shall have the right to take part in the
discussion of all matters coming before the City Council or other official City
Boards and Commissions, but shall have no right to vote. The City Administrator
shall be entitled to notice of all special and regular meetings of the City
Council.
      (2)   Recommend to the City Council such measures as, in his or her
judgment, he or she deems to be in the best interest of the city.
      (3)   Propose to the Mayor and City Council such personnel rules and
regulations as the Administrator deems necessary to manage the personnel of the
city.
      (4)   Direct, supervise and coordinate the activities of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by law, and to
administer the affairs of the city to ensure that all city business is
accomplished efficiently and economically.
      (5)   Keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
city and location of such property. The City Administrator shall be responsible
for the care and custody of all city property which is not assigned to some
other officer or body for care and control.
      (6)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and City Council by the date set by
the Council a recommended annual budget for city operations and recommended
capital programs; and administer the approved budget after adoption.
      (7)   Supervise and administer the procurement of commodities and
services for all city departments, offices arid agencies.
      (8)   Report to the City Council periodically the financial condition of
the city.
      (9)   Submit to the Mayor and City Council and make available to the
public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
city.
      (10)   Cause to be prepared grant and/or loan applications on behalf of
the city; administer grant and/or loan funds and shall have caused the
preparation of relevant reports to all appropriate agencies.
      (11)   Evaluate the city’s programs, agreements and services and make
recommendations on modifications and improvements thereto.
      (12)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of his or her
official duties.
      (13)   The City Administrator shall perform such other duties as may be
required by the Mayor and City Council consistent with state statutes and the
ordinances of the city.
      (14)   Hold such other appointive offices as may be consistent with law,
as the Mayor and City Council may determine, and to faithfully and honestly
discharge the duties and powers associated with such office.
      (15)   The powers assigned to the City Administrator are not intended to
diminish those powers otherwise assigned to other officers by statute or
ordinance, including, but not limited to, the Mayor.
      (16)   The City Administrator shall report to the Mayor, and shall run
all day-to-day operations of the city. All city department heads shall report
to him or her.
      (17)   Advise the Mayor in policy formulation related to the city, and
execute and enforce all policies of the city.
      (18)   Advise the executive authority of the city in the appointment and
discipline of subordinate administrative personnel if not delegated appointment
and disciplinary authority by the Mayor.
      (19)   Supervise and manage all full-time and part-time employees of the
city, including any other contract employee or independent contractor.
      (20)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs.
      (21)   Other duties as determined or delegated by the Mayor and City
Council.
      (22)   Advise the Mayor of the city in policy formulation on overall
problems of the city.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-27-2022)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.50 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Office of City
Attorney.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The Mayor shall appoint a City
Attorney, who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will. He or she shall be an attorney
licensed to practice in the commonwealth. He or she shall be chosen solely on
the basis of his or her legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual
experience in or knowledge of the state’s municipal and administrative law. The
City Attorney may also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other
public or private employment.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Attorney shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him or her by statute, this chapter and such
other municipal responsibilities delegated from time to time. He or she shall
attend all meetings of the City Council at which his or her presence is
specifically requested, shall advise the Mayor, the City Council and all other
city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their municipal
duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for and defend the
city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which the city is a
party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and in behalf of the
city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights or interests of
the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions, orders and legal
instruments as the Council may direct, and generally shall attend to all legal
business of the city.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Attorney shall receive compensation in
accordance with a contract or similar agreement approved by City Council.
   (E)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the commonwealth and has provided a bond, if required, in the sum as
established by City Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.45) (Ord. passed 2-16-2010)
§ 31.51 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   For provisions concerning the Chief of Police, see §
35.066 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.46)
§ 31.52 FIRE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Chief, see §
35.096 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.47)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see §
31.02
   Council members, see §
31.21
   Election procedure, see §
31.20
   Oath; bond, see §
31.01
   Removal from office, see §
31.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.
      (1)   If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one or more
members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill the
vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his or
her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum.
      (2)   Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for non-partisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and
shall be exercised by the elected Council of the city.
      (2)   The Council may not perform any executive functions, except those
functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government.
      (2)   The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties.
      (3)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (4)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish the manner in which one of its number may be
selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote; except that, he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)    The dates of the regular meetings of the City Council shall be
held on the third Tuesday of each month, unless said dates should fall on a
holiday, in which event the meeting may be held on the following evening, if
deemed necessary.
      (2)   The time of regular meetings shall be 5:30 p.m.
      (3)   The place of regular meetings shall be the Courtroom of the
Municipal Building.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Council may be called by the
Mayor or upon written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the
Mayor or Council shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special
meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for
compliance with KRS Ch. 61. At a special meeting, no business may be considered
other than that set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (C)   Minutes. The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person
responsible for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 of this code of ordinances and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. passed 1-21-1980; Ord. passed 2-5-2001; Ord. passed
6-28-2011; Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 83A.130(11)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Dawson Springs”.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 of this chapter shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment
of the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council,
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) of this code and
32.42 of this chapter, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B) of this chapter, no ordinance shall be enforceable until published
pursuant to KRS Ch. 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
City Council. If City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.40   General policy; scope
   
33.41   Investment objectives
   
33.42   Investment authority
   
33.43   Prudent person rule
   
33.44   Authorized investment
   
33.45   Diversification of investments
   
33.46   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.47   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.48   Collateral
   
33.49   Investment reporting
   
33.50   Audit
   
33.51   Investment policy adoption
Procurement Code
   
33.70   Compliance with statute
   
33.71   Purchasing procedure
   
33.72   Small purchase procedures
   
33.73   Large purchase procedures
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 9lA.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the State Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02 of this chapter.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, shall bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)    Except as provided in KRS 91A.040(2) and (3) the city shall, after
the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
auditor of public accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit shall be
completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. The
city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Governor’s
Office for Local Development for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Ch.
424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds”, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by Section
309 of this Act, are available to the public at no cost at the business address
of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to division (A) of this section, the Auditor
shall bill the city for the actual expense of the audit or examination
conducted. The actual expense shall include the hours of work performed on the
audit or examination as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not
limited to travel costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a
statement of the hourly rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit
or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The start of the city’s fiscal year will commence on July l of each year.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. passed 12-20-1982)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments, except as provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23 of this chapter, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 of this chapter and a description of all properties. Promptly upon
passage the city shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and shall
mail by certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of
determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be
utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner and the ratio the cost to
each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25 of this chapter, any affected property owner may file an action in the
Circuit Court of the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by
special assessment, the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or
the amount of his or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of
the improvement by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the
property of that property owner, no further action on the improvement insofar
as it relates to any property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the
final judgment has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners, except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 9lA.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26 of this chapter, or after favorable final judgment in any such action,
whichever comes later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part
thereof stayed by the action, including notice requiring payment of special
assessment or installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance
the improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other
payments will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 9lA.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof; except that, §§
33.23 through
33.27 of this chapter applies if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property or any other change may be made
without such compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 9lA.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.40 GENERAL POLICY; SCOPE.
   (A)   General policy. It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in
a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security of principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and
conforming to all state statutes and city regulations governing the investment
of public funds.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held
directly by the city, its subdivisions, bonds, agencies or commissions. These
financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual financial report and
include all moneys in the following funds:
         (a)   General Fund;
         (b)   Special Revenue Funds; and
         (c)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
      (2)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees or
fiscal agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be
invested in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local
government funds and in accordance with the city’s primary investment
objectives.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.41 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following.
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city’s
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification may be required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio will remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining the highest market rate of return
consistent with the objectives of safety and liquidity, throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.42 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city’s investment program is hereby
delegated to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall have the
authority, subject to the approval of the governing body, to establish
additional specific written procedures for the operation of the investment
program which are consistent with this investment policy. The procedures shall
include explicit delegation of authority, if any, to persons responsible for
investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures
established by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be
ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials and
employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control losses of
public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions by
officers and employees. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain all records
related to the city’s investment program.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.43 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the City Clerk/Treasurer in the performance of his or
her duties as manager of the city’s funds shall be evaluated using the “prudent
person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under
prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer, acting in accordance with written procedures
as a prudent person exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security’s performance; provided that,
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Prior Code, § 33.33) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.44 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT.
   (A)   General. The funds of the city available for investment shall be
invested in accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only
in the following types of investment instruments.
   (B)   Authorized investment instruments.
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements;
provided that, delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements
is taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export-Import Bank of the United States;
         (c)   Farmers Home Administration; and
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation.
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)   Federal Land Banks;
         (d)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (e)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (f)   Tennessee Valley Authority.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4).
(Prior Code, § 33.34) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.45 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city’s investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument, and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   The city’s funds shall be diversified by security type and
institution. With the exception of fully collateralized investments, and except
for authorized investment pools, no more than 20% of the city’s total
investment portfolio will be invested in a single security type or with a
single financial institution.
   (C)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city’s funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than one year from the date of purchase. However, the city may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to
exceed five years to maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities
exceeding two years, if maturity of the investments is made to coincide as
nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Prior Code, § 33.35) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.46 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a list of financial
institutions authorized to provide investment services to the city. In
addition, a list shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers
selected by creditworthiness, who maintain an office in the commonwealth.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who want to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Clerk/Treasurer with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquiries posed by the City Clerk/Treasurer or the governing body. This
will include any information considered necessary to allow the City Clerk/
Treasurer to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of city
funds if the city’s funds on deposit at any time will exceed 10% of the
institution’s capital stock and surplus.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall evaluate the financial capacity and
creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/dealers prior to the
placement of the city’s funds. Also, periodically those institutions
maintaining city funds will be reviewed and, based on the review,
recommendations will be made regarding investment policy or program changes
determined to be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 33.36) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.47 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets will
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City
Clerk/Treasurer and any other officers or employees of the city authorized to
engage in investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 33.37) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.48 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and investments
maintained in a financial institution named as a depository be collateralized.
In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all
funds, the collateralization level shall be 100% of the market value of
principal, plus accrued interest. Collateral shall be limited to the types of
instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city or financial institution has a current custodial
agreement. A clearly marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be
supplied to the city and retained by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The right of
collateral substitution is hereby granted.
(Prior Code, § 33.38) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.49 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall submit to the governing body an annual
report regarding the status of the entity’s investment program.
   (B)   As to each investment, the report shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited;
      (2)   Type of investment;
      (3)   Interest rate;
      (4)   Purchase date, purchase price and maturity date; and
      (5)   Current market value of the investment.
(Prior Code, § 33.39) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.50 AUDIT.
   In connection with the audit of city funds conducted by an independent
certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of the city’s
investment program, including internal controls and procedures, and the results
of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the city’s
audit.
(Prior Code, § 33.40) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
§ 33.51 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city’s investment policy shall be adopted by order of the
governing body and shall become effective on the date set forth in the order.
The policy shall be reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate. Any
amendments to this policy must be made by order of the governing body.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the moneys so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The City Clerk/
Treasurer may take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing portfolio
to the provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature liquidation of
any current investment.
(Prior Code, § 33.41) (Municipal Order 1995-01, effective 1-3-1995)
PROCUREMENT CODE
§ 33.70 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE.
   The intent of this chapter is to establish procedures which are in
conformance with the Kentucky Model Procurement Code, KRS 45A.345 through
45A.460. It is the intent of the city to comply with the letter and spirit of
the statute in making all contracts and purchases whether or not each
requirement of the statute is specifically referred to in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 33.71 PURCHASING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All purchases during a year should be made within the general
guidelines of the city budget. No city purchase commitment should be made,
verbal or written, by anyone, unless the appropriate procedures outlined herein
have been followed.
   (B)   These regulations are divided into two categories, small purchase
procedures and large purchase procedures.
   (C)   Supplies, services, or construction normally supplied as a unit cannot
be artificially divided for the sole purpose of using small purchase
procedures.
   (D)   Small purchases may still require Mayoral and/or Council approval
based on budgetary considerations and/or constraints.
   (E)   In the event it cannot be determined within a reasonable certainty as
to whether a purchase can be categorized as a small purchase or large purchase,
the large purchase procedures outlined herein shall be followed. Furthermore,
in the event small purchase procedures are followed and the information/ quotes
received from vendors establishes that the amounts/costs are in excess of the
amounts allowed for small purchase procedures, the small purchase procedures
utilized shall immediately be terminated, informing any applicable vendors of
the same, and the procedures of making large purchases shall immediately be
followed.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 5-10-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Small purchases, see KRS 45A.385
§ 33.72 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchases from $0 to $ 1,000. It is the policy of the city to achieve
the highest level of practical competition in all city purchases. Small
purchases should be made from existing city contracts or state contracts where
available and practical. If said contracts are not available, purchases should
be made from the best source available based upon cost, availability, and
location of the vendor.
   (B)   Purchases from $ 1,001 to $5,000. It is the policy of the city to
achieve the highest level of practical competition in all city purchases.
Purchases in this range of prices should be made from existing state contract/
state approved vendors where available and practical. Notwithstanding, if state
approved vendors are not utilized, purchase from amounts between $1,001 to
$5,000, may be made only after three informal quotations have been received to
assure maximum practicable competition. Informal quotations do not require
formal specifications to be established by the city and can be given by vendors
by telephone or in person. Notwithstanding, the city shall document the dates,
times, and amounts of said informal quotations.
   (C)   Purchases from $5,001 to $29,999. It is the policy of the city to
achieve the highest level of practical competition in all city purchases.
Purchases in this range of prices should be made from existing state contract/
state-approved vendors where available and practical. Notwithstanding, if
state- approved vendors are not utilized, purchases for amounts between $5,001
to $29,999 may be made only after three written quotations have been received
by the city to assure maximum practicable competition. The procedures for
formal quotations shall include, but not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   The city shall develop a written description of the service or good
requested into specifications.
      (2)   The specifications shall include whether the award will be made
based on the lowest quote or best value quote.
      (3)   If the award is based on best value, the evaluation criteria must
be clearly defined in the specifications.
      (4)   Establish time and date for opening of quotations.
      (5)   Solicit written quotations from vendors by distributing packets
directly to vendors or distributing the same online (if available).
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 33.73 LARGE PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   The city hereby adopts the Kentucky Model Procurement Code as set forth in
KRS 45A.343 to 45A.460, along with any applicable amendments which the Kentucky
General Assembly may adopt, said code to be incorporated in full herein by
reference.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500. In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 of this chapter shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of
not less than $50, nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which
may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the
city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney
of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of Dawson Springs.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of the city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of the city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.26 of this chapter.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.844,
and the requested public records are immediately available, the custodian shall
deliver the records for inspection. A person may inspect public records at the
designated office of the city during the regular office hours, or in
appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   (1)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the
city, suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection.
      (2)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices of the city without the written permission of the official custodian of
the record.
      (3)   When public records are inspected at the city offices, the person
inspecting the records shall have the right to make abstracts and memoranda of
the public records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When
copies are requested, the custodian may require advance payment of the
prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26 of this chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a
written request and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage
where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Non-exempt public records used for non-commercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for non-commercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3)) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
non-exempt public records requested for use for non-commercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a non-standardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the
request of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion
provide the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual
costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of non-exempt public records
are requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from
the requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and
may require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The
contract shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial
purpose for a specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.13)
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23 of this chapter;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Non-commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23 of this chapter.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS Ch.
154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this division (A).
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this division (A) shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this section
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps or specifications of structural elements, floor plans and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)5. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the office for Security
Coordination and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs; and
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law, being
KRS 61.870 through 61.844.
      (14)    Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that non-
disclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such records,
but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18 of this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878) (Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Airport Board
   
35.001   Establishment and purpose; corporate powers
   
35.002   Powers and duties
   
35.003   Members
   
35.004   Employees
Board of Appeals
   
35.015   Establishment
Board of Utility Commissioners
   
35.030   Establishment
Municipal Housing Authority
   
35.045   Establishment; corporate powers and by-laws
   
35.046   Powers and duties
   
35.047   Appointment of members
   
35.048   Qualifications and terms
   
35.049   Officers
   
35.050   Compensation
Police Department
   
35.065   Establishment
   
35.066   Police Chief; police officers
Recreation Board
   
35.080   Establishment; powers and duties
   
35.081   Members
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.095   Establishment
   
35.096   Fire Chief; Assistant Chief; firefighters
   
35.097   Out-of-town fire runs
   
35.098   Dawson Springs Emergency Response
Historic District Commission
   
35.110   Establishment
Riverside Park Recreational Project and Commission
   
35.125   Establishment
   
35.126   Purpose
   
35.127   Members
AIRPORT BOARD
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE; CORPORATE POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a non-partisan Airport Board, composed of
six members, pursuant to KRS 183.132 et seq.
(KRS 183.132(1))
   (B)   The purpose of the Board shall be to establish, maintain, operate and
expand necessary, desirable or appropriate airport and air navigation
facilities at Tradewater Airport.
(KRS 183.133(1))
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall be a body politic and corporate with the usual
corporate attributes and, in its corporate name, may sue and be sued, contract
and be contracted with, and do all things reasonable or necessary to
effectively carry out the duties prescribed by state law and this subchapter.
      (2)   The Board shall constitute a legislative body for the purposes of
KRS 183.630 through 183.740.
(KRS 183.132(4))
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.002 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Airport Board shall have all the powers, authorities and
responsibilities and shall be subject to all the limitations set forth in KRS
183.132 through 183.138 and any other applicable statutory provisions.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 35.003 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Appointment. The Airport Board shall be composed of six members
appointed by the Mayor.
(KRS 183.132(5))
   (B)   Terms. Members of the Board shall serve for a term of four years each,
and until their successors are appointed and qualified. However, initial
appointments shall be made so that two members are appointed for two years, two
members for three years and two members for four years. Upon expiration of
these staggered terms, successors shall be appointed for a term of four years.
(KRS 183.132(9))
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation,
but shall be allowed any reasonable expenses incurred by them in the conduct of
the affairs of the Board.
(KRS 183.132(16))
   (D)   Officers.
      (1)   The Board shall, upon the appointment of its members, organize and
elect officers. The Board shall choose a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson who
shall serve for terms of one year. The Board shall also choose a Secretary-
Treasurer who may or may not be a member of the Board. The Board may fix a
salary for the Secretary-Treasurer and the Secretary-Treasurer shall execute an
official bond to be set and approved by the Board, and the cost thereof shall
be paid by the Board.
(KRS 183.132(16))
      (2)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep the minutes of all meetings of
the Board and shall also keep a set of books showing the receipts and
expenditures of the Board. He or she shall preserve on file duplicate vouchers
for all expenditures and shall present to the Board, upon request, complete
reports of all financial transactions and the financial condition of the Board.
Such books and vouchers shall at all times be subject to examination by the
City Council. He or she shall transmit at least once annually a detailed report
of all acts and doings of the Board to the City Council.
(KRS 183.132(18))
   (E)   Quorum. A quorum for the transacting of the business of the Board
shall consist of four members.
(KRS 183.132(20))
   (F)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or by four
members.
      (2)   In case of tie voting by the Board, the issue shall be deemed to
have failed passage.
(KRS 183.132(20))
   (G)   Replacement.
      (1)   A Board member may be replaced by the Mayor upon a showing to the
Mayor of misconduct as a Board member or upon conviction of a felony.
      (2)   No Board member shall hold any official office with the Mayor.
(KRS 183.132(21))
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 35.004 EMPLOYEES.
   The Airport Board may employ necessary counsel, agents and employees to
carry out its work and functions, and prescribe such rules and regulations as
it deems necessary.
(KRS 183.132(11)) (Prior Code, § 35.04)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 35.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Appeals, see §
150.03 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.15)
BOARD OF UTILITY COMMISSIONERS
§ 35.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Utility Commissioners, see §§
50.015 through
50.018 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.25)
MUNICIPAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 35.045 ESTABLISHMENT; CORPORATE POWERS AND BY-LAWS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Municipal Housing Authority pursuant to
KRS 80.020 through 80.257.
   (B)   The persons appointed as provided in KRS 80.030 and 80.040 shall
constitute a body corporate in the name of Municipal Housing Authority of the
city, with power to contract and be contracted with, to sue or be sued, and to
adopt a seal and alter it at will. The Authority may establish by-laws, rules
and regulations for its own government.
(KRS 80.050) (Prior Code, § 35.35)
§ 35.046 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Housing Authority shall have all the powers, authorities and
responsibilities and be subject to all the limitations set forth in KRS 80.010
through 80.257 and any other applicable statutory provisions.
(Prior Code, § 35.36)
§ 35.047 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Housing Authority shall consist of the Mayor as an ex-officio member,
and four persons appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(KRS 80.030) (Prior Code, § 35.37)
§ 35.048 QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   Each person appointed to the Municipal Housing Authority shall be at
least 25 years of age and a bona fide resident of the city for at least one
year preceding the appointment. No officer or employee of the city, whether
holding a paid or unpaid office, is eligible to hold an appointment on the
Housing Authority.
   (B)   Appointees to the Housing Authority shall be originally appointed for
terms of four years. Upon the expiration of the term of the first appointees,
their successors shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three and four
years, respectively, and, upon the expiration of the term of each of the second
group of appointees, his or her successor shall be appointed for a term of four
years.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(KRS 80.040)
(Prior Code, § 35.38)
§ 35.049 OFFICERS.
   The Municipal Housing Authority shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from its members and a Secretary and Treasurer who need not be a
member of the Authority. The duties of the Offices of Secretary and Treasurer
may be performed by the same person.
(KRS 80.050) (Prior Code, § 35.39)
§ 35.050 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Municipal Housing Authority, except the Mayor, may
receive compensation either as a salary or as payment for meetings attended.
The compensation of members shall be fixed by the City Council. The Housing
Authority shall fix the compensation of the Secretary and Treasurer, but the
City Council may fix or limit the salary.
(KRS 80.060) (Prior Code, § 35.40)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.065 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.50)
§ 35.066 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and regular
police officers.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will and may be removed by the Mayor at will, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract.
   (C)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall take the oath required
by § 228 of the Constitution of the commonwealth. The Police Chief shall
provide bond in the sum of $5,000, with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein and with the qualifications set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position of Police Chief or
police officer.
   (E)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor, the Chief of Police shall be a
peace officer and responsible for the organization and operation of the Police
Department of the city. He or she shall supervise, direct and control the
equipment and personnel thereof as peace officers of the city and state in the
enforcement of all statutes, laws and ordinances thereof. The Chief of Police
shall perform all other duties and responsibilities required of the Chief of
Police by statute or ordinance.
   (F)   The compensation of the Police Chief shall be at grade 14 in
accordance with the Personnel Classification and Compensation Plan of the city.
The compensation of all police officers shall be in accordance with the
Personnel Classification and Compensation Plan of the city.
   (G)   The Personnel Rules and Regulations of the city (
Ch. 37) shall apply to the Police Department and to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 35.51) (Ord. 6-18-84-2, passed 6-18-1984)
RECREATION BOARD
§ 35.080 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Recreation Board is hereby established.
   (B)   The Recreation Board shall possess all the powers and be subject to
all the responsibilities of KRS 97.010 through 97.050.
(Prior Code, § 35.60) (Res. passed 3-19-1984)
§ 35.081 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Recreation Board shall consist of five persons to be appointed by
the Mayor, to serve for terms of four years and until their successors are
appointed.
   (B)   However, the members first appointed shall be appointed as follows:
one member for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years
and two members for four years.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments
and for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 35.61) (Res. passed 3-19-1984)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.095 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city, to be known as the
Dawson Springs Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.70)
§ 35.096 FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT CHIEF; FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire
Chief and volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; and may be
removed by the Mayor at will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Fire Chief or Assistant
Fire Chief unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the commonwealth, and who has satisfied the qualification
requirements of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Subject to the executive authority of the Mayor and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the volunteer firefighters and approved by the
Mayor, the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for the
organization and operation of the Fire Department; shall supervise, direct and
control the equipment of the Fire Department and the volunteer firefighters in
their response to fires and the extinguishment thereof and the plans,
preparations, procedures, practice and training in regard thereto; and may, as
Chief of the Fire Department, perform or cause to be performed all other
actions authorized by law, ordinance or regulation.
   (E)   The compensation of the Volunteer Fire Department Chief and the
Assistant Fire Chief shall be in an amount to be established by City Council by
ordinance, in accordance with § 31.02 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall operate in accordance with
Standard Operating Guidelines developed and adopted by the members and approved
by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 35.71) (Ord. 2025-05, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 35.097 OUT-OF-TOWN FIRE RUNS.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department is expressly granted authority to
respond to out-of-town fires.
   (B)   It is the specific intent of the city that the Volunteer Fire
Department not cross jurisdictional boundaries of another fire department,
unless specifically requested by that fire department in an emergency. This
area shall include Caldwell County and the No Outlet area. The exception to
this limit would be fire runs to Outwood which is mandated by written contract.
   (C)   The Volunteer Fire Department may respond only to structure and motor
vehicle fires, unless in an emergency.
   (D)   However, in the event of an emergency situation, the City
Telecommunicator will at his or her discretion dispatch to the scene one or
more city fire units regardless of whether or not the emergency exists within
the corporate limits of the city. The Telecommunicator will make his or her
decision in accordance with the guidelines of the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA).
   (E)   In accordance with NFPA 1710/20 Standards, the Volunteer Fire
Department is in agreement with the Hopkins County Dispatch to alert the
Charleston Volunteer Fire Department and St. Charles Volunteer Fire Department
to any/all alarms that meet the criteria listed in the DSFD's Automatic Aid
agreements with said entities.
(Prior Code, § 35.72) (Ord. passed 1-24-1989; Ord. 35.70, passed 6-2-1992; Ord.
35.70, passed 6-7-1993; Ord. 2025-05, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 35.098 DAWSON SPRINGS EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department does not have the capability, within its
original structure, to provide emergency services to the citizens, other than
as a triage area.
   (B)   In the instance of a catastrophic event, including, but not limited to
an event involving severe or other dangerous weather, volunteer emergency
services will conform to the requirements of the Hopkins County Emergency
Management Team and adhere to the Emergency Operations Plan set forth by the
Hopkins County Fiscal Court and Emergency Management Team. The Chief and
Assistant Chief will relay all direct orders to all emergency staff as they
become available. In the absence of the Chief and Assistant Chief, the Mayor
will assign a Fire Department officer to assume that role.
   (C)   The structure containing the Volunteer Fire Department located at 200
W. Arcadia Avenue, Dawson Springs, Kentucky, is hereby designated as a triage
area in the event of a catastrophic event, and that structure shall be governed
by emergency services staff until all areas are deemed structurally sound and
the public is released. In the event the structure at 200 W. Arcadia Avenue is
not accessible or no longer meets the needs of the immediate circumstance, the
Fire Chief, with approval from the Mayor, may designate an appropriate
structure to serve as a triage area.
   (D)   For any victim that is logged into any or all structures or facilities
within the city that provide shelter, emergency care, and/or hosting of
fatalities, the informational Citizen Location Log provided by the Volunteer
Fire Department and included in the Volunteer Fire Department's Standard
Operating Guidelines must be completed. To provide consistent location tracking
of victims for search and rescue efforts, any victim(s) entering such
facilities shall provide their identifying information upon entry and exiting
the said facility at all times until they sign out of any such facility
permanently.
(Prior Code, § 35.73) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 2025-05, passed 7-22-2025)
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
§ 35.110 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Historic District Commission is hereby established in the city and
authorization is given for the designation, establishment and protection of a
Historic Preservation District and individual landmarks.
(Prior Code, § 35.80) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
RIVERSIDE PARK RECREATIONAL PROJECT AND COMMISSION
§ 35.125 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Riverside Recreational Project is hereby established to maintain and
operate the baseball park known as Riverside Park together with all necessary
appurtenances, including parking facilities adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 35.90) (Ord. passed 4-15-2002)
§ 35.126 PURPOSE.
   The Riverside Park Commission is hereby appointed to operate and control the
Riverside Park District.
(Prior Code, § 35.91) (Ord. passed 4-15-2002)
§ 35.127 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 97.120, the Mayor of the city shall appoint a
committee of three persons to serve on the Riverside Park Commission.
   (B)   The Commissioners appointed shall be approved by the majority of the
City Council.
   (C)   Each Commissioner shall serve for a term of four years; except that,
those Commissioners first appointment shall be appointed for terms that will
allow a term of each member to expire in a different year.
   (D)   The Commission and the project shall be conducted pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 97.100 through 97.240.
(Prior Code, § 35.92) (Ord. passed 4-15-2002)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   Adoption of annual county property assessment
   
36.02   Assessment date
   
36.03   Due and delinquency dates; discounts, penalties and interest
   
36.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
36.05   Due and delinquency dates; penalties and interest
   
36.06   Use of ad valorem tax revenues
   
36.07   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
§ 36.01 ADOPTION OF ANNUAL COUNTY PROPERTY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 132.285(1), the city hereby elects to use the annual
county assessment as the basis for all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council on all real and personal property located within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Each year, the city shall appropriate and pay to the office of the
County Property Valuation Administrator a sum for the use of the property
assessment as prescribed by KRS 132.285(1).
(Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 ASSESSMENT DATE.
   The assessment date for the city shall conform to the assessment date for
the county.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 DUE AND DELINQUENCY DATES; DISCOUNTS, PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   All ad valorem taxes levied by the city on all real and personal property,
except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall be due and payable on October
1 of each year. A 2% discount shall be allowed on all tax bills paid by October
31 of each year. Ad valorem tax bills on all real and personal property, except
tax bills on motor vehicles, remaining unpaid on January l each year shall be
considered delinquent. A penalty of 10% of the amount of the taxes due shall be
added to each delinquent bill. In addition, delinquent tax bills shall bear
interest at a rate of 6% per annum on all taxes and penalties due, until paid.
(Prior Code, § 36.03)
§ 36.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles within the corporate limits of the city subject to tax
for city purposes shall be assessed each year in accordance with KRS 132.487,
and ad valorem taxes shall be levied thereon for city purposes. All ad valorem
taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the County Clerk in accordance
with the procedures set forth in KRS 134.800 through 134.990.
(Prior Code, § 36.04)
§ 36.05 DUE AND DELINQUENCY DATES; PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 134.810, ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be
due and payable on or before the last day in the month in which registration is
required by law for all motor vehicles renewed. Tax bills remaining unpaid
following the end of the month in which motor vehicle registration is required
shall be considered delinquent.
   (B)   Any taxes which are paid within 30 days of becoming delinquent shall
be subject to a penalty of 3% on the taxes due. Any taxes which are not paid
within 30 days of becoming delinquent shall be subject to a penalty of 10% of
the taxes due. In addition, interest at an annual rate of 15% shall accrue on
the taxes and penalty from the date of delinquency.
(KRS 134.810(2), (3)) (Prior Code, § 36.05)
§ 36.06 USE OF AD VALOREM TAX REVENUES.
   All monies derived from ad valorem taxes levied by the city shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in
defraying current, general and incidental expenses of the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.06)
§ 36.07 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in
KRS Ch. 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Ch. 136, maintained by such financial institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established. The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than 5-1-1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a 2% discount by 5-31-1997, or without the discount by 6-30-
1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established. The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes on the property assessed for
taxes to the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid
before 6-30-1997, for the tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January
31, for all subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per
annum.
   (F)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Ord. passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Adoption of Personnel Classification and Pay Plan by reference
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see §
31.02
   Oath; bond, see §
31.01
   Removal from office, see §
31.03
§ 37.01 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL CLASSIFICATION AND PAY PLAN BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Ordinance, Classification Plan, Compensation Plan and Policies
and Procedure adopted by the ordinance enacted 3-19-2012, and all subsequent
amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code
as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed 1-3-1983; Ord. passed 3-19-2012; Ord. passed 6-18-2015)
CHAPTER 38: CITY POLICY
Section
Grievance Procedures Relating to Discrimination Based on Disabled Status
   
38.01   Procedures adopted
   
38.02   Administration
   
38.03   Amendments
   
38.04   Procedures
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES RELATING TO DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABLED STATUS
§ 38.01 PROCEDURES ADOPTED.
   The procedures set forth in §
38.04 of this chapter shall be the “grievance procedures” for anyone who
believes he or she has been discriminated against by the city based on disabled
status with respect to federally funded programs.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 350.0, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 350.0, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.03 AMENDMENTS.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 350.0, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by the Federal Revenue Sharing
Program regulations and § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29
U.S.C. § 794, may personally or by a representative, file a complaint with the
Office of Mayor of the city. A person who has not personally been subjected to
discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (B)   Any person (citizen, applicant or employee) who believes he or she has
been adversely affected by an act or decision by the city and that such act or
decision was based on disabled status shall have the right to process a
complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Step One. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step Two. The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15
days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days nor more than 45
days after receiving the written statement. There shall be prepared a written
documentary of the discussions at the informal meeting, which shall be
preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step Three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step Four. At any hearing before the City Council, the complainant
may designate any person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and
participate in the discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to
participate in the discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the
City Council. The City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter
within 15 days, and the decision shall be the final procedure for the
complainant at the local level. There shall be prepared a written documentary
of the discussion at the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 350.0, passed 8-20-1984)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Title
   
39.002   Findings
   
39.003   Purpose and authority
   
39.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
39.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
39.017   Receipt of gifts
   
39.018   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
39.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
39.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
39.021   Post-employment restriction
Financial Disclosure
   
39.035   Who must file
   
39.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
39.037   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
39.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
39.039   Contents of financial interests statement
   
39.040   Non-compliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
39.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
39.070   Board of Ethics created
   
39.071   Alternate members
   
39.072   Facilities and staff
   
39.073   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
39.074   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
39.075   Notice of hearings
   
39.076   Hearing procedure
   
39.077   Appeals
   
39.078   Limitations of actions
   
39.079   Advisory opinions
   
39.080   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Dawson Springs
Code of Ethics”.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of the city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards with which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 39.02) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable; and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts which might
arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003(c), as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to the requirements of KRS 65.003(c).
(Prior Code, § 39.03) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTEE. Any person appointed by the executive authority, City Council or
any board, commission, committee or other subdivision of the city.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Board of Ethics created and vested by this chapter with
responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, is nominated for office by a political party or files a declaration of
intent to be a write-in candidate for a public office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State.
   CITY. The City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation,
committee or other entity operating as a subdivision of, or under the authority
of the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, who is employed by the
city. EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of
their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s, employee’s, appointee’s or volunteer’s household, or one claimed by
such person’s spouse, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   The Police Chief;
      (5)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
   VOLUNTEER. Any person performing services for or on behalf of the city,
without compensation, and at the request (whether general or specific) of the
executive authority, the City Council, any commission, board, committee or
other subdivision of the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.04) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer, employee, appointee and volunteer of the city and every city
agency shall comply with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer, or any immediate family
member of any officer, employee, appointee or volunteer, shall have an interest
in a business or engage in any business, transaction or activity, which is in
substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the officer’s, employee’s,
appointee’s or volunteer’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer shall intentionally use
or attempt to use his or her official position with the city to secure
unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer shall intentionally take
or refrain from taking any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain
from taking any discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other
officer, employee, appointee or volunteer, to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, on any matter before the city or any city agency in order
to obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer, employee, appointee or volunteer;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer
or any family member, has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer, employee, appointee or
volunteer, or any family member is negotiating or seeking prospective
employment or other business or professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer shall be deemed in
violation of any provision in this section, if, by reason of the officer’s,
employee’s, appointee’s or volunteer’s participation, vote, decision, action or
inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer, employee, appointee or
volunteer, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably
be expected to accrue to any other member of the business, occupation,
profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer, employee, appointee or volunteer who has a prohibited
financial interest which the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer believes
or has reason to believe may be affected by his or her participation, vote,
decision or other action taken within the scope of his or her public duties
shall disclose the precise nature and value of the interest, in writing, to the
City Council or city agency served by the officer, employee, appointee or
volunteer, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the
proceedings of the Council or agency. The officer, employee, appointee or
volunteer shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 39.15) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city
agency, shall directly or through others, undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office; before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office; before an employee was hired by the city or city agency; or before a
volunteer commences work or representation on behalf of the city or a city
agency. However, if any contract entered into by the city or any city agency
officer or employee before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to
office, was hired as an employee or began work or representation of the city as
a volunteer, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, is hired as an employee or begins work as a volunteer, then
the prohibition in division (A) above shall apply to the renewal of the
contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer, employee, appointee or volunteer is authorized to participate in
establishing the contract specifications, awarding the contract or managing
contract performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer, employee,
appointee or volunteer has any of the authorities set forth in the preceding
sentence, then the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer shall accept no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth below are
satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s, employee’s, appointee’s or volunteer’s interest in the
contract are publicly disclosed at a meeting of the City Council, board or
other subdivision.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council, board or other subdivision before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer is
in the best interests of the public and the city or city agency because of
price, limited supply or other specific reason.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council, board or other subdivision before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 39.16) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city agency
shall directly, or indirectly or through any other person or business, solicit
or accept any gift having a fair market value of more than $100, from a single
source per year, whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel,
entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or in any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence, the
officer, employee, appointee or volunteer in the performance of his or her
public duties.
(Prior Code, § 39.17) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city shall use or permit
the use of any city time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real
property for the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy;
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public; or
   (C)   The use is so small in nature that it confers no substantial benefit
upon the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer, and does not interfere in
any way with the city’s needed or desired use of such property.
(Prior Code, § 39.18) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city agency
shall represent any person or business, other than the city, in connection with
any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or
any city agency, except as set forth below.
   (A)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where such representation is within the context
of official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer, employee,
appointee or volunteer from representing himself or herself in matters
concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer, employee,
appointee or volunteer from representing a corporation in which he or she is an
officer or employee, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Such corporation has no other officer or employee reasonably
capable of representing them in such matter;
      (2)   The specific nature of such matter and the nature of the officer’s,
employee’s, appointee’s or volunteer’s interests in the matter are publicly
disclosed at a meeting of the City Council, board or other subdivision;
      (3)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council, board or other subdivision before the matter is addressed by such
officer, employee, appointee or volunteer;
      (4)   A finding is made by the City Council, board or other subdivision
that the representation of such corporation by the officer, employee, appointee
or volunteer is in the best interests of the public and the city; and
      (5)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council, board or other subdivision before the matter is addressed by such
officer, employee, appointee or volunteer.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 39.19) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city agency
shall intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course or his
or her official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to
further his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or
business. Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to
disclosure, pursuant to
Ch. 34 of this code, at the time of its use or disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 39.20) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city agency
shall appear or practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any
matter on which the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer personally worked
while in the service of the city or any city agency for a period of one year
after termination of the officer’s, employee’s, appointee’s or volunteer’s
service with the city or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 39.21) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers of the city and city agencies shall file
an annual statement of financial interests with the City Clerk/Treasurer:
   (A)   Elected city officials; and
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Prior Code, § 39.35) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The initial statement of financial interests required by §
39.035 of this chapter shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer, no later
than 4:00 p.m., 2-1-1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall
be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on February 1 each year; provided that:
         (a)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
         (b)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date on which he or she becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver a copy of the official form
for such statement to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 2 of each year.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown, in writing.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a statement of financial interests that has been filed with the Board, the
officer shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 39.36) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics. The failure of the City Clerk/Treasurer to deliver a copy
of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 39.37) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the official custodian of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer, as the custodian, as public
documents, available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the City
Clerk/Treasurer for a period of five years after filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 39.38) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.039 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, limited to salary,
commission or dividends;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside the state, if
the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during the
past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer, had at any time during the
preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural, and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer, or any member of the filer’s immediate family,
had during the preceding calendar year an interest of $5,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts and honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer during the preceding
calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers or business listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 39.39) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.040 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   Upon order of the Board of Ethics, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify by
certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial interests
who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement,
or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The
notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date
by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and shall advise the
person of the penalties for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 39.40) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
NEPOTISM
§ 39.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or a city
agency shall advocate, recommend or cause the following, of a family member to
an office or position of employment with the city or a city agency:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement.
   (B)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or a city
agency shall supervise or manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer shall participate in any
action relating to the employment or discipline of a family member; except
that, this prohibition shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from
voting on or participating in the development of a budget which includes
compensation for a family member; provided that, the family member is included
only as a member of a class of persons or a group, and the family member
benefits to no greater extent than any other similarly situated member of the
class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to 1-
1-1995.
(Prior Code, § 39.50) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of City Council. The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years; except that, with respect to members initially appointed, one
member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be appointed
for a term of two years and one member will be appointed for a term of three
years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three years. The
members may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the City Council, for misconduct, inability or willful
neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from
office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a
hearing before the Mayor and the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of City Council. All vacancies shall be filled
for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its members
and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the membership. The
Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board of Ethics
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 39.60) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.071 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of City Council, may appoint one alternate
member of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Prior Code, § 39.61) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.072 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the City Council in its annual
budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics with the facilities,
materials, supplies and staff needed for conduct of its business (including,
but not limited to, clerical and legal services). Further, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall receive all documents filed for or on behalf of the Board of
Ethics, and shall immediately communicate to the Board of Ethics the fact and
contents of any and all documents and other writings received by him or her on
behalf of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 39.62) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.073 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual who has the power to administer
oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, City Council, the governing body of any city agency, the County Attorney
or any other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to the city and city agency officers,
employees, appointees and volunteers regarding whether a given set of facts and
circumstances would constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers,
employees, appointees and volunteers of the city and city agencies who are
subject to its terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties
authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain, through the City Clerk/Treasurer, all
statements of financial interests that are required to be filed by this chapter
and to ensure that the statements are available for public inspection in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the State Open Records
Act, being KRS 61.870 through 61.844;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Council; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that, the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 39.63) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.074 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of its
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer,
employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or city agency who is the subject
of the complaint, a copy of the complaint and the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board; except the Board may turn over to the
Commonwealth’s Attorney or County Attorney evidence which may be used in
criminal proceedings.
   (D)   (1)   Within 45 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board
of Ethics shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry whether
the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges a
minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Board shall immediately
terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of
its decision to the complainant and to all officers or employees against whom
the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer who is the
subject of the complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers or lack of significant impact on the public
confidence in the city government, issue a confidential written reprimand to
the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer concerning the alleged violation
and provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and the governing body of the
city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files a false complaint with the Board
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer, employee,
appointee or volunteer of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 39.64) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.075 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in a complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for, and the Board consents, to a later date.
The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Prior Code, § 39.65) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.076 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The state’s Rules of Civil Procedure and the state’s Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics (unless in
conflict with this chapter) unless or until the Board of Ethics adopts any
additional or substituted rules and regulations, all so as to afford all
parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of a hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board of Ethics hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing, and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practical, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
      (1)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this
chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
      (2)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is proof beyond a reasonable doubt of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
         (a)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
         (b)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations
and provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor, the City Council and
governing body of the city agency with which the violator serves;
         (c)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
         (d)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of
not more than $1,000; and/or
         (e)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state
laws to the County Attorney or the Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction
for prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 39.66) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.077 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 39.67) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.078 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 39.68) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.079 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer,
employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or city agency who is covered by
this chapter.
   (B)   A request for an advisory opinion shall be in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requester.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.844, to establish criteria under which
it will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall
be public documents; except that, before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance of any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact, determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by its opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Prior Code, § 39.69) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.080 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city
agency shall be subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten
to use, any official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which
tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or
discriminate against any person who in good faith, reports, discloses, divulges
or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency
or official of the city or the commonwealth, any facts or information relative
to an actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or
any city agency discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of KRS
61.870 through 61.884; and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 39.70) (Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city
agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a
civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer, employee, appointee or volunteer of the city or any city
agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of
this chapter shall forfeit to the city or city agency an amount equal to the
economic benefit or gain which the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer is
determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within
a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board that an officer, employee, appointee or
volunteer of the city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this
chapter shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other
disciplinary action by the executive authority of the city or city agency or by
any other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any
action to remove or discipline any officer, employee, appointee or volunteer
for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all
applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of
the commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 39.99)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails, or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the
filing identified in the notice under §
39.040 of this chapter, within the time period established in the notice shall
be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil
fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under §
39.040 of this chapter may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within the
prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 39.40)
(Ord. passed 11-28-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Financial management system
   
50.003   Sewer Use Ordinance, Service Regulations Ordinance incorporated by
reference
Board of Utility Commissioners
   
50.015   Creation
   
50.016   Membership
   
50.017   Officers
   
50.018   Duties and responsibilities
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.030   Written notice
   
50.031   Revocation of permit
   
50.032   Liability
Connections
   
50.045   Connection with public sewer system required
   
50.046   New buildings
   
50.047   Private sewage disposal
   
50.048   Sewer taps
Cross-Connections
   
50.060   Title
   
50.061   Purpose and authority
   
50.062   Definitions
   
50.063   Requirements
Equipment
   
50.075   Inspections
   
50.076   Lines to be maintained by city
   
50.077   Sewer yard lines
   
50.078   House trailer connections
   
50.079   House sewers
   
50.080   Customer’s water service lines
   
50.081   Water distribution lines
   
50.082   Water meters and vaults
Rates and Charges
   
50.095   Water rates
   
50.096   Sewer rates
   
50.097   Connection charges
   
50.098   Meter deposits
   
50.099   Billing and collection
   
50.100   Disconnection and reconnection charge
   
50.101   Method of billing surcharges
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARGES FOR DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the sewage treatment
system to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage
treatment system whose contribution contains biological oxygen demand (BOD),
suspended solids (SS) or ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants and who are permitted to
make such contributions to the system by decision of the Superintendent of the
city’s water and sewer system.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES. Charges levied on all users who discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the city’s sewage treatment system. SEWER
SERVICE CHARGES shall be comprised of a system of user charges, excessive
strength surcharges and a system of charges for the debt service obligations of
the system.
   USER CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage system to offset the
cost of operations and maintenance of the system including normal replacement
costs.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
§ 50.002 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review at least biennially the sewage contribution of
users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the sewage works, debt
service obligations and sewer service charges. Based on such review, the city
shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer service charges to
accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among users of the treatment system; and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system and to meet debt service
requirements.
   (C)   Excessive strength surcharges shall be reviewed at the time of and in
conjunction with the review of sewer service charges. Surcharge rates shall be
revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
§ 50.003 SEWER USE ORDINANCE, SERVICE REGULATIONS ORDINANCE INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The City Council has, concurrently herewith, enacted the Sewer Use
Ordinance passed 3-6-1989 and the Ordinance Adopting Rules, Regulations and
Conditions of Service passed 3-6-1989 applicable to the combined and
consolidated water and sewer system of the city. Such ordinances are
incorporated in this section by reference and made a part hereof.
   (B)   Copies of such ordinances are on file at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, where same may be examined by any interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
BOARD OF UTILITY COMMISSIONERS
§ 50.015 CREATION.
   The management, control and operation of the combined municipal waterworks
and sewer system of the city shall be vested in the Board of Utility
Commissioners created, appointed and functioning as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. passed 11-2-1942)
§ 50.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Utility Commissioners shall consist of three persons who
shall, at all times, be persons of outstanding reputation for ability and
integrity.
   (B)   In the event any of the Utility Commissioners shall fail or refuse to
act, and in the event of a vacancy and also during the month of September of
each year, the Board of Utility Commissioners shall meet and propose the names
of two persons for each appointment to the Board. The Mayor, with the consent
and approval of the City Council, shall appoint one of the two persons so
nominated by the Board of Utility Commissioners and in the event the Mayor
shall refuse to appoint, or the City Council shall refuse to approve the
appointment of either of such persons thus nominated, the Board of Utility
Commissioners shall select or nominate two additional persons, and the Mayor
shall appoint with the approval of the Council one of the four persons thus
nominated for each appointment thus to be made. All vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term and all other appointments shall be for a term of six
years.
   (C)   A majority of the Board of Utility Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum.
   (D)   The Board of Utility Commissioners may adopt rules and by-laws for the
time and place of its meetings and the conduct thereof.
   (E)   Each of the Utility Commissioners shall qualify by giving bond with
corporate surety in the sum of $10,000, the premiums to be paid out of the
Operation and Maintenance Fund.
   (F)   All Utility Commissioners shall at the time of appointment and so long
as they are acting as such Utility Commissioners be residents and taxpayers of
the city. All appointments shall be until their successors shall have
qualified. Any Commissioner shall be eligible for reappointment upon the
expiration of his or her term, but any person who shall have held an elective
office of the city shall not be eligible for appointment until at least one
year after the expiration of the last term of office for which he or she was
elected.
   (G)   Each Utility Commissioner shall receive compensation for his or her
services at the rate determined by the Board and the Mayor.
   (H)   Each Commissioner shall be subject to removal for cause by the
recorded vote of a majority of the City Council after hearing.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. passed 11-2-1942; Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord.
passed 1-24-2011)
§ 50.017 OFFICERS.
   (A)   At the first meeting of the Board of Utility Commissioners, and
annually thereafter, it shall organize by the designation of one of the Utility
Commissioners to act as Chairperson and another to act as Secretary.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings when present and shall
call special meetings on his or her own motion or when requested so to do by
the other two Utility Commissioners. The Secretary shall keep a record of the
proceedings, which shall be available for inspection as other municipal
records.
   (C)   Any Utility Commissioner failing to attend four successive meetings
without cause acceptable and approved by the Board of Utility Commissioners
shall be thereby automatically removed from office and the vacancy shall be
filled as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. passed 11-2-1942)
§ 50.018 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Board of Utility Commissioners shall have full and complete
supervision, management and control of the combined and consolidated municipal
waterworks and sewer system of the city, including the maintenance, operation
and extension thereof.
   (B)   (1)   All bills for water and sewer services shall be collected and
accounted for by the Board of Utility Commissioners in the manner and form as
required by law and the ordinances of the city and all disbursements for
account of the combined and consolidated works and system shall be ordered paid
out only upon approval of the Board of Utility Commissioners.
      (2)   The Board of Utility Commissioners shall at all times be governed
by and conform to the provisions of the ordinance or ordinances pursuant to
which said city may have authorized and issued any bonds from time to time
outstanding which, by their terms, are payable from and secured by the revenues
of the combined and consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer system.
   (C)   The Board of Utility Commissioners shall have power to employ, fix the
compensation of and discharge a Superintendent of the combined and consolidated
municipal waterworks and sewer system, and through such Superintendent to
direct, employ, fix the compensation of and discharge all employees of the
combined and consolidated works and system.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. passed 10-5-1953)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.030 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of the Sewer Use Ordinance,
adopted by reference in §
50.003 of this chapter, except Art. IX, § F thereof, shall be served by the
Board of Utility Commissioners and/or the city or other authority, such as the
County Health Department, with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
§ 50.031 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of the Sewer Use Ordinance, as
adopted by reference in §
50.003 of this chapter, shall be subject to termination of its authority to
discharge sewage into the city sewer system upon a determination pursuant to
the terms of the Sewer Use Ordinance that such violation currently exists and
is of a continuing nature.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
§ 50.032 LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of the Sewer Use Ordinance, as
adopted by reference in §
50.003 of this chapter, shall become liable to the Board of Utility
Commissioners and/or the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
Board of Utility Commissioners and/or the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.045 CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All owners and occupants of houses, hotels, manufacturing or commercial
establishments, or any building of any kind, situated upon lots abutting upon
any street, alley or other easement or private property in which there is a
sewer line which is a part of the sewer system of the city, shall connect
therewith all sewerage drainpipes of such houses, hotels, manufacturing or
commercial establishments or other buildings conveying sewerage, as hereinafter
defined, therefrom. The connections shall be made under such regulations as the
City Council may establish by ordinance, and to fail to do so is hereby
declared to be unlawful and to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. passed 11-2-1953) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 NEW BUILDINGS.
All architects, contractors, builders or other persons who shall erect new
buildings or repair old buildings shall, before doing so, exhibit to the City
Council or other board or body of the city in charge and control of the
operation of the combined and consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer
system satisfactory evidence that a means has been or will be provided for
connecting, as soon as practicable, the sewerage drain from the building with
the municipal sewer system. The buildings to be erected or repaired shall be
situated on a lot abutting on a street, alley or other easement or private
property in which there is located a line of such sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. passed 11-2-1953) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy,
vault, cesspool or similar contrivance for the reception of human excreta or
other sewerage when the premises abut upon a public sewer line in either
street, alley or other easement or private property. All such privies or
toilets shall be removed by the owners and the occupants of the property
abutting on any street, alley or other easement or private property on which
runs a sewer line and to which the drainage from such premises may be
connected. All such privies or surface toilets or other means of casting or
depositing human excreta or other sewerage upon or into the soil or into any
running or percolating stream of water or into any cistern, well or sink
whereby the soil is contaminated with such sewerage are hereby declared to be
nuisances and shall be abated.
   (B)   When the house, hotel, manufacturing or commercial establishment or
other building from which the sewerage drained is situated on a lot not
abutting on a street, alley or other easement or private property in which a
line of the municipal sewer system runs and which, for this reason, may not be
drained into public sewer system, then the sewerage from such locations may be
drained into a state septic tank or into a state pit with concrete floor and
riser. Where inside toilets not connected with the municipal sewer system for
reasons of location as stated above, then so long as such conditions exist,
such sewerage shall be drained into a state septic tank constructed according
to the specifications prescribed by the State Board of Health. Where there is
no inside toilet, then the sewerage from such premises shall be connected with
a pit with concrete floor and riser constructed and maintained according to the
specifications of the State Board of Health. Such specifications are set out in
printed exhibits of the State Board of Health marked “A” and “B” respectively,
and now made a part of this chapter by reference, and one copy marked “A” and
the other “B” are attached to Ord. dated 11-2-1953. The construction of such
septic tank or pit above referred to shall be approved by the State Board of
Health or by an authorized representative of the city, or by the City Engineer,
as conforming to the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. passed 11-2-1953) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.048 SEWER TAPS.
   The procedure for all sewer taps shall be as follows.
   (A)   All sewer taps shall be made by the city water and sewer system.
   (B)   The city water and sewer system will run the extension from such taps
to the property line of the particular property which is to be serviced.
   (C)   No individual, other than an employee of the city water and sewer
system, shall be allowed to render this service.
(Prior Code, § 50.28) (Ord. passed 3-19-1956) Penalty, see §
50.999
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 50.060 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City Cross-
Connection Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
§ 50.061 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from contamination due to backflow or
cross-connections. The city recognizes that contamination of the public water
supply presents an imminent health hazard to the residential and non-
residential users of the public water system; the threat of significant
economic loss due to disrupted water service to such residential and non-
residential water users and the potential liability to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
§ 50.062 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The measured vertical distance from the lowest end of a potable
water outlet to the flood rim or line of the fixture or receptacle into which
it discharges. The minimum required AIR GAP shall be twice the effective
opening of the potable water outlet.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. Any device that may be approved by the Cabinet
in lieu of proper air gap separation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACK PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source other than the original water source.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the original water source, caused by the reduction of pressure in
the potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code, being 815
KAR 20.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION, CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
§ 50.063 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be considered as
residential buildings. No water service connection to any premises shall be
installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such service connection
is protected by a backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   Residential service connections shall be considered as low hazard
applications and all such connections shall have, at a minimum, a dual check
valve backflow preventer installed between the water meter and the residence.
The city may require additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if
the degree of hazard constitutes a higher level of protection for the public
water system.
   (B)   Non-residential.
      (1)   No water service connection to any non-residential facility shall
be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such water service
connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The type of
protective device required shall be determined at the time of installation of
the service connection and shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard at
the point of such service connection.
      (2)   At a minimum, the service connection shall be installed with a dual
check valve backflow preventer.
      (3)   In the event activities to occur within a non-residential facility
changes and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   The customer’s water system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine whether
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violation
of this subchapter, exist. When such condition becomes known, the city shall
deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition in
conformance with state and city statutes relating to plumbing, water supplies
and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      (2)   Water service to any premises shall be discontinued if it is found
that a backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter has been
removed, by-passed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections.
      (1)   All existing water service connections which do not have backflow
prevention assemblies or existing water service connections which have less
than the minimum required backflow prevention assemblies, shall, except for the
inspection requirements, be excluded from the requirements of this subchapter
so long as the city is assured that the public water system is satisfactorily
protected. Whenever the existing service connection is moved or requires more
than minimum maintenance or when the city determines that a hazard to health
exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this
subchapter shall be installed on such existing service connection.
Periodically, the city shall install or require to be installed backflow
prevention assemblies on existing unprotected water service connections until
such time that all water service connections within the public water system are
equipped with backflow prevention assemblies. Backflow prevention assemblies
shall not be installed on existing service connections until after the property
owner of such residential or commercial property has been informed of the
actual and potential hazards that may be created as a result of such backflow
assembly installation.
      (2)   Notices provided to such property owners shall include the
following language as adopted in 815 KAR 20:120, § 2, item (6): When cross-
connection control devices are properly installed, they create a closed water
system. A properly sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold
water supply located as near the water heater as possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
EQUIPMENT
§ 50.075 INSPECTIONS.
   Employees and authorized representatives of the city water and sewer system
are hereby authorized and empowered to make any inspection necessary in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, which includes inspection on any new
service, water or sewer, and also to any existing service when a violation of
the provisions of this chapter or a health hazard is believed to exist.
(Prior Code, § 50.40) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964)
§ 50.076 LINES TO BE MAINTAINED BY CITY.
   The water and sewer lines on city streets or easements which have been
legally acquired by the city shall be maintained by the city water and sewer
system. All laterals extending from the city sewer to the property line or at
the point where the house service is connected, are the property of the sewer
system and shall be maintained by and solely controlled by the city water and
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964)
§ 50.077 SEWER YARD LINES.
   (A)   The yard line, which is the line running from the existing sewer line
to the building served, shall be installed by the individual whose building is
served with such sewer service.
   (B)   Such yard line shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Yard lines shall be of recommended material free from defects, such
as vitrified clay pipe in four-foot lengths where possible, and shall be
recommended joint style, cement asbestos, bituminous fiber or cast iron. All
horizontal piping shall be run in practical alignment and at a uniform grade of
not less than one-eighth inch per foot. Any change made in direction shall be
made by the appropriate use of 45-degree wyes, half wyes, quarter, sixth,
eighth or sixteenth bends. Yard lines shall have adequate cover to protect them
from mechanical damage. Any yard line not having a minimum of 12 inches of
cover, not otherwise protected, shall be of cast iron.
      (2)   Any change in size of or type of pipe shall be with approved
fitting. Any plumber, upon completion of a yard line, shall prepare a sketch or
drawing in duplicate (scale not less than one-fourth inch to ten feet), showing
yard line in detail, such as turns, wyes, cleanouts and the like, in relation
to other buildings or permanent markers. One copy of the sketch shall be given
to the property owner and one copy to the individual making the inspection.
      (3)   All work on yard lines is to be performed in a workmanlike manner
and in no case shall any portion of yard line be back-filled without consent of
the inspector in writing.
(Prior Code, § 50.42) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.078 HOUSE TRAILER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All the specifications contained in §
50.077 of this chapter shall apply to house trailers and in addition, each
trailer shall be provided with a four-inch sewer extended to one inch above the
grade line with cast iron pipe through a concrete pad four inches thick and 24
inches square.
   (B)   (1)   A four-inch cast iron trailer connection shall be provided with
a standard ferrule with a three-inch standard thread. A three-inch sewer plug
shall be fastened by a chain to this concrete pad to be used when the trailer
opening is not in use.
      (2)   The pipe used between the coach and sewer opening shall be
waterproof.
(Prior Code, § 50.43) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.079 HOUSE SEWERS.
   (A)   House sewers shall include sanitary drainage pipes inside or beneath
the building served, and stubbed out a distance of not less than five feet as
measured from the outside wall of the building, all to be maintained by the
subscriber.
   (B)   Material used in the house sewer shall be free from defects, and of
the following materials: cast iron, steel, brass, copper or lead and shall be
installed in a workmanlike manner and all fixtures and fixture branches shall
be provided with a proper trap.
   (C)   The specifications in divisions (A) and (B) above on house sewers
shall apply to any building in which plumbing is installed or remodeled after
the effective date of this section.
   (D)   In no case shall foundation drains, basement drains, roof drains or
other surface water be piped into or otherwise allowed to enter the sanitary
plumbing system.
   (E)   Any yard line in excess of 100 feet shall be provided with an approved
clean-out opening.
   (F)   Any building, residential or commercial, which is moved, torn away,
burned or otherwise abandoned, shall, within ten days thereafter, have the
sanitary sewer connection sealed against surface water and sewer gas to the
satisfaction of the city water and sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.44) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.080 CUSTOMER’S WATER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   CUSTOMER’S WATER SERVICE LINES is defined as the piping from the water
meter to the building served.
   (B)   The water service line shall be of not less than three-fourths inch
diameter and shall be Type K copper, galvanized iron or plastic pipe as shall
be recommended by the inspector.
   (C)   The water service line shall be protected by a minimum of 24 inches of
soil or protective insulation.
   (D)   The water service line shall have before the first fixture or outlet,
an easily accessible stopcock, globe or gate valve and be approved by the
inspector before water service can be provided to any subscriber whose service
has been discontinued for any reason or where new service is desired.
   (E)   No water service will be provided where a cross-connection exists or
where there is a direct connection between public water system and private
system.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.081 WATER DISTRIBUTION LINES.
   (A)   WATER DISTRIBUTION LINES are defined as the pipes which convey the
water from the service line to the plumbing fixture.
   (B)   The lines shall be free from defects, installed in a workmanlike
manner, and shall be of copper, galvanized iron or brass material. Type K
copper or galvanized iron shall be used for pipes which are buried and all
lines shall be protected against freezing so far as possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.082 WATER METERS AND VAULTS.
   The water meter, although it may be on subscriber’s property, is owned and
maintained by the city water and sewer system and in case of damage to the
meter by fire, heat or malicious tampering, such damage will be billed to the
subscriber.
(Prior Code, § 50.47) (Ord. passed 4-9-1964)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.095 WATER RATES.
   The rates and charges for water services furnished by the city are hereby
fixed and established on a monthly basis as follows.
   (A)   Minimum water rate. The minimum water bill shall be $17.12 per month,
and each water customer shall be entitled to 267 cubic feet (or less) of water
in each month for such minimum charge.
   (B)   Meter rates for water usage in addition to minimum charge. Subject to
the minimum monthly water rate specified above, the metered charges shall be as
follows:
 
Number of Cubic Feet      Monthly Charge
First 267 cubic feet      Minimum $17.12
Next 401 cubit feet       $0.0554 per cubic feet
Next 2,006 cubic feet     $0.0467 per cubic feet
Next 4,011 cubic feet     $0.0400 per cubic feet
All over 6,685 cubic feet $0.0334 per cubic feet
 
   (C)   The minimum water bill for a group housing complex with ten or more
individual units (a UNIT, in this instance, meaning residential unit as opposed
to individual building) shall be determined by multiplying the prevailing
minimum water rate assessed to individual customers by a figure equal to 90% of
the total units in the group housing complex.
(Prior Code, § 50.60) (Ord. 610.01, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. passed 8-13-1980;
Ord. 610.01, passed 6-15-1981; Ord.610.01, passed 8-19-1996; Ord. 610.01,
passed 5-1-2002; Ord. 50, passed 4-18-2005; Ord. 50, passed 11-27-2006; Ord.
50, passed 6-2-2009; Ord. 50, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 50, passed 6-12-2017; Ord.
2018-06, passed 9-24-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 2023-06, passed
6-23-2023: Ord. 2025-04, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 50.096 SEWER RATES.
   (A)    The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user where sewer
is available. This combined schedule includes rates, for user and debt service
charges, based on the volume of metered or estimated water consumption.
Sewer Rate Schedule
(Based on Water Consumption)
Water Consumption per Month Combined
Sewer Rate Schedule
(Based on Water Consumption)
Water Consumption per Month Combined
First 267 cubic feet        $21.65*
Next 401 cubic feet         $0.0735 per cubic feet
Next 2,006 cubic feet       $0.0662 per cubic feet
Next 4,011 cubic feet       $0.0542 per cubic feet
Over 6,685 cubic feet       $0.0575 per cubic feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Minimum bill
 
   (B)   Normal monthly billings for sewer service shall be determined on the
basis of each user’s metered water consumption and rates provided in division
(A) above. It is recognized in the assessment of such charges that not all
metered water consumption is returned to the sewers. For the purpose of
assessing service charges equitably, the average percentage of metered water
consumption returned to the sewer is deemed to be 90%. Where it can be
evidenced that the proportion of metered water consumption actually returned to
the treatment system by an individual customer is significantly different from
90%, service charges shall be determined on the basis of actual wastewater
discharge. In this event, the volume of wastewater discharge shall be
determined by using additional water meters to segregate water consumption that
is returned to the sewers and/or actual metering of wastewater flows and/or any
other procedure agreed upon by the user and Superintendent of the city sewer
system as a reasonable method of determining flows. The city reserves the right
to require the installation of additional water meters and/or wastewater flow
meters for the purpose of determining actual monthly wastewater flows.
   (C)   In the event that the Superintendent shall permit a user to discharge
wastes to the sewage works having an average biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
content in excess of 250 mg/liter and/or an average suspended solids (SS)
content in excess of 300 mg/liter and/or an average ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)
content in excess of 25 mg/liter, the user shall pay a surcharge based upon the
excess strength of its wastes.
   (D)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the sewage
works that has received permission from the Superintendent to contribute
excessive strength sewage.
 
Surcharge Rates
BOD   $0.21 per pound
NH3-N $0.82 per pound
SS    $0.21 per pound
 
   (E)   Commercial out of city sewer rates. The following schedule of rates
shall apply to each out of city user where sewer is available. This combined
schedule includes rates, for user and debt service charges, based on volume of
meter usage.
 
Commercial Out of City Sewer Rate Schedule
(Based on Meter Usage)
Sewer Usage per Month Combined
First 267 cubic ft.   $26.32* minimum
All over 267          $0.07 per cubic ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Minimum rate
 
(Prior Code, § 50.61) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 610.01, passed 8-19-1996;
Ord. 50, passed 4-18-2005; Ord. 50, passed 11-27-2006; Ord. 50, passed 6-2-
2009; Ord. 50, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 50, passed 6-12-2017; Ord. 2018-06,
passed 9-24-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 2023-06, passed 6-23-
2023)
§ 50.097 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)    The waterworks connection (tap-in) charge applicable to all customers
shall be $50, plus a $950 installation fee for three-fourths-inch and one-inch
water service. The installation fee shall include labor, tubing, meter box and
appurtenances for water service from existing water main to within property
line, or a maximum of 75 feet. On service lines longer than 75 feet, the
subscriber shall pay for additional tubing and labor involved.
   (B)   Service larger than one inch shall be charged $50 (tap-in) charge plus
the actual cost of meter installation, plus the cost of the meter. The sewer
connection (tap-in) charge shall be $50, plus a $950 installation fee for four-
inch and six-inch sewer service. The fee shall include labor, pipe, fitting and
appurtenances for sewer service from existing main to within property line or a
maximum of 50 feet from existing main. On lines longer than 50 feet, the
subscriber shall pay for additional pipe and labor involved.
   (C)   Sewer services larger than six inches shall be charged $50, plus
actual cost on the installation.
   (D)   In the event a second meter is desired on the same lot or parcel of
land, and it is deemed suitable by the Superintendent, a tee connection may be
made for a fee of $25, plus a $50 installation fee. All permanent units or
structures, whether housekeeping or business, shall have their own separate
meter, with the following exceptions.
      (1)   Trailer parks, apartment buildings or office complexes may, at the
owner’s discretion, be allowed the use of one meter; providing, however, that,
the owner or management is responsible for the water service charges.
      (2)   Two units which are located on the same lot or parcel of land, one
of which is considered temporary, may be allowed the use of one meter, if the
owner of the property will be responsible for payment of the charges for water
service, which shall include a double flat prevailing rate, any additional
water over the amount allowed in the double flat rate will be billed at the
regular rate as shown on the water bill.
(Prior Code, § 50.62) (Ord. passed 6-3-1974; Ord. 610.01, passed 9-10-1979;
Ord. passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-23-2023)
§ 50.098 METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The service deposit for residential water and sewer subscribers will
be $60. This deposit shall be retained by the city water and sewer system as
security to be applied to final bill at termination of service. Any balance of
deposit shall be refunded to the subscriber.
   (B)   Satisfactory credit history may be accepted in lieu of monetary
deposit. A satisfactory credit history is one who has previously maintained
service with city water and sewer system for a minimum of 12 months, and not
received more than three past due notices, or one who has closed out prior
accounts with the city water and sewer system in an acceptable manner.
   (C)   A subscriber with satisfactory credit may have service in more than
one location. However, if any one account becomes delinquent, all accounts are
considered past due and service will be terminated.
   (D)   Persons applying for commercial water and sewer service may be
required to make a deposit equal to the estimated charge for two months
service. After 12 months satisfactory service, such subscriber may request a
reduction and partial refund of deposit, which shall be freely granted by the
City Council; provided, such subscriber has maintained satisfactory credit as
set forth.
(Prior Code, § 50.63) (Ord. passed 10-9-1989)
§ 50.099 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The rates or charges as set forth in this subchapter shall be billed
monthly, on statements which shall be issued on or about the last day of each
month, and all bills for such water or sewer service shall be considered due
and payable 16 days after the date of issue. If a bill is not paid within 16
days after the date of issue, the bill shall be considered delinquent, and
there shall be imposed a penalty on each bill not so paid, in an amount equal
to 10% of the charges (other than sales tax) shown on the face amount of the
delinquent bill.
   (B)   The city may serve a customer written notice of his or her delinquency
and of the fact that the customer is entitled, upon written request, to a
hearing on the question of termination of service. If the bill is not paid
within ten days after the mailing of such notice, and if no hearing is
requested, or if a hearing is requested and timely held, and such customer’s
delinquency is thereby established, the city may disconnect the water service
of the customer without further notice. If any deadline date falls on a Sunday
or legal holiday, the deadline shall not expire until the next secular day
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 50.64) (Ord. 610.01, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 50.100 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Disconnection for non-payment of bill. If water service is
disconnected by the city for reason of delinquency in the payment of any water
or sewer bill, reconnection of such service shall not be made until the owner
or user pays all charges and penalties owed, plus the amount of $50 as a
disconnection and reconnection charge.
   (B)   Voluntary disconnection and reconnection. In the event a customer
whose water service has been disconnected because of delinquency in the payment
of a water or sewer bill elects not to have the water service reconnected, or a
customer who voluntarily requests that his or her water service be
disconnected, subsequently requests reconnection, the customer shall pay to the
city, before water service is restored to his or her premises, any delinquent
water or sewer bill owed by the customer, including the penalty on the bill,
plus the disconnection and reconnection charge ($50) prescribed in division (A)
above; plus an amount equal to the applicable connection charge at that time
for new customers.
(Prior Code, § 50.65) (Ord. 610.01, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-
23-2023)
§ 50.101 METHOD OF BILLING SURCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on the following
formula, with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users:
(A(D-250) + B(E-300) + C(F-25)) x .006238 x G = Surcharge Payment ($/Mo.)
      (2)   Where formula components are as follows:
         (a)   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound;
         (b)   Surcharge rate for SS, in $/pound;
         (c)   Surcharge rate for NH3-N, in $/pound;
         (d)   User’s average BOD concentration, in mg/liter;
         (e)   User’s average SS concentration, in mg/liter;
         (f)   User’s average NH3-N concentration, in mg/liter; and
         (g)   User’s monthly flow to sewage works, in 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 250 mg/liter of BOD, 300 mg/liter of SS or 25 mg/liter
of NH3-N.
   (C)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
(Prior Code, § 50.66) (Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
50.030 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation of the Sewer Use
Ordinance, as adopted by reference in §
50.003 of this chapter, and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount
not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.99)
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification of any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to the Sewer Use Ordinance, as adopted by
reference in §
50.003 of this chapter, or wastewater contribution permit, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under the Sewer Use Ordinance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months or by
both.
(Prior Code, § 50.23)
(Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Uncovered garbage
   
51.03   Wind-blown refuse
   
51.04   Deposits on streets
   
51.05   Dumping refuse on private property prohibited
   
51.06   Disposal
   
51.07   Dumping restricted; city landfill
   
51.08   Collection by city
   
51.09   Containers
   
51.10   Vehicles to be covered
   
51.11   Rates
   
51.12   Evidence of violation
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; non-combustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery, other mineral waste; street rubbish, including but not limited
to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch-basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles. REFUSE shall not include earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler-
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973)
§ 51.02 UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass, except
in a tightly-covered metal container.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 WIND-BLOWN REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes or
trash of such a material that it can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the
city, except in a covered container.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the city. This
section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse or ashes in
a container complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory to having
such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DUMPING REFUSE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any
premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes anywhere in
the city, except in a state-approved incinerator or disposal device properly
constructed and operated or in a lawfully established garbage or refuse
landfill. Such material not so properly disposed of shall be placed in
containers for collection by the city as hereinafter prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 DUMPING RESTRICTED; CITY LANDFILL.
   The following acts are hereby prohibited:
   (A)   Dumping in unauthorized places, including the roads leading to the
city landfill and the area around the city landfill;
   (B)   Scavenging in the city landfill area; and
   (C)   Setting refuse afire at the city landfill.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. passed 1-17-1972; Ord. passed 4-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
51.99
§ 51.08 COLLECTION BY CITY.
   (A)   (1)   The properly designated officer or officers shall have charge of
the collection of garbage in the city.
      (2)   The collection shall be made from all residences at least once each
week; provided that, the material is properly stored for collection in a
container complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person and/or entity shall place, cause to be placed or permit,
within the city limits, garbage, waste or trash originating outside the city
for collection by the city or for any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973; Ord. 51, passed 6-17-1992; Ord.
51, passed 7-11-2001)
§ 51.09 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   (1)   All garbage for collection by the city shall be placed in metal,
plastic or rubber containers equipped with a cover and designed so that they
may be lifted and carried by one person. Metal or plastic 55 gallon drums are
prohibited.
      (2)   No such container shall have a capacity of more than 96 gallons.
      (3)   However, garbage may be stored for collection in a plastic bag of
sufficient strength so as to secure its contents.
   (B)   No container or bag shall include refuse, ashes, large or heavy
objects such as concrete blocks, bricks, tree stumps, tree limbs or automobile
or appliance parts.
   (C)   Garbage not properly contained will not be collected and shall be
removed at the expense of the resident.
   (D)   Garbage containers shall not be placed out for pick-up more than 24
hours prior to collection and must be removed within 24 hours after collection.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973; Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. 51,
passed 6-17-1992; Ord. 51, passed 7-11-2001; Ord. 2025-01, passed 2-24-2025)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 VEHICLES TO BE COVERED.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle, any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or road. All garbage, refuse or
ashes to be transported to any landfill shall be secured by proper covering,
when applicable, to prevent contents from blowing or falling out of such
vehicle along any street or road.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973; Ord. 51, passed 6-17-1992)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 RATES.
    Beginning with the bills dated August 2021, the following garbage rates
shall apply.
   (A)   A monthly garbage service fee shall be assessed to each housekeeping
unit within the city limits at the following rates:
      (1)   Single-family residence: $21 per month;
      (2)   Apartment buildings: $21 per month per each housekeeping unit; and
      (3)   Head of household 65 years of age or older: $17 per month. In order
to receive the reduced rate, the customer shall be required to make application
for a refund to the City Clerk/Treasurer, and furnish such evidence as may be
required. Refund requests will only be received from July 1 through July 30 of
each year.
   (B)   This monthly service charge shall be added to, and become a part of,
monthly bills mailed for water or sewer charges by the city water and sewer
system, and shall be paid to the city water and sewer system as a part of the
total bill.
   (C)   In case of multiple-units with only one water meter, the total number
of housekeeping units at $21 per unit will be assessed on the bill for water
and sewer charges, and the person in whose name the water meter is listed shall
be responsible for the payment of the total charges.
   (D)   A 10% penalty shall be added to these fees not paid by the sixteenth
of each month, and shall be considered delinquent if not paid by the sixteenth
of each month.
   (E)   (1)   Any service fees billed to residents not on metered water will
be billed separately, but will still be collected by the City Water and Sewer
Office, and shall carry the same 10% penalty.
      (2)   Collection of delinquencies in these accounts will be the
responsibility of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973; Ord. passed 7-27-1987; Ord.
passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 51, passed 6-17-1992; Ord. 51, passed 5-15-1995; Ord.
51, passed 7-11-2001; Ord. 51, passed 6-24-2005; Ord. 51, passed 6-28-2011;
Ord. 2021-03, passed 7-22-2021) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   The fact that garbage, refuse or ashes remain on any occupant’s premises in
the city in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of such premises is responsible for the violation of the chapter
occurring.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. passed 8-20-1973)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of the portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 of this chapter or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this
traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of the traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
   (B)   In the event of any road closure within the city for any period of
time, any such road closure shall be reported to the Hopkins County Dispatch so
as to alert emergency staff of possible interruptions of service.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of the city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to
alleviate unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such
traffic regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not
to exceed two weeks.
   (B)   If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than
two weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph; except that, this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering
an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it
to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space, except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General speed limit. It shall be unlawful to drive on any public
street or thoroughfare of the city at a faster rate of speed than 25 mph,
except on those streets where a different speed limit has been posted.
   (B)   School zones.
      (1)   There is hereby established a school zone, which shall extend one
block in all directions from each public school building of the Dawson Springs
Independent School System. No motor vehicle shall travel at a rate of speed
greater than 15 mph in any school zone during any time in which the 15 mph
speed limit has been posted.
      (2)   The Police Department shall place school zone signs which indicate
a 15 mph speed limit in conspicuous places during all times when children are
coming to school, leaving school or at any other time when it is in the best
interest of the school system to have the signs in place.
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the fine schedule set forth in KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 11-17-1952; Ord. passed 2-15-1954)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see KRS 189.390(4)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)    Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)    Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity
with the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane adjacent to that of the
vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by
such officer.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days, or not more than 60 days, before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (C)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $60, nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not
more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Overtime parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with disabled permits
   
72.13   Parking time limited in certain areas
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb; except that, where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb; except
that, on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street; except that,
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided that, such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle, except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02 of this chapter;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (E)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-control
device;
   (H)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area;
   (I)   On any controlled-access highway;
   (J)   Within a highway tunnel;
   (K)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; and
   (1)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) (Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day, except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)    The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to disabled parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith, the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color. No parking is permitted on the west
or right hand side of Meadows Hill Drive from the curb at the intersection of
Poplar Street extending all the way to Buzzard Lane.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which, by their very nature, would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day, except Sunday, and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 2023-08, passed 6-23-2023)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 OVERTIME PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 72 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 72 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 540.8, passed 5-19-1980) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever, in his or her judgment, it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If, at any time, a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise
trespassing in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or
person in charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor
vehicle removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27 of this chapter.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two wheels of
the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH DISABLED PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor
vehicle bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk
pursuant to appropriate county ordinances for disabled persons, when operated
by a disabled person or when transporting a disabled person, may be parked in a
designated disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered parking space
may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit
is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
      (2)   The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period
of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the disabled person to or from
the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone, nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Parking in the following designated areas shall be limited to two hours from
the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., prevailing time:
   (A)   Parking spaces in the downtown area that have parking meters; and
   (B)   Areas posted by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. passed 1-17-1972) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full at the office of the
Chief of Police, City Hall, before a release of impoundment can be issued for
the vehicle’s release.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 540.8, passed 5-19-1980)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Ch. 281 and within ten
business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify the
registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license number
and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a
garage or other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to
provide the notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the
registered owner at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a
motor carrier as defined in KRS Ch. 281 within ten business days of recovery
of, or taking possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the
information as to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of
reasonable charges due on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to
provide notice as provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall
forfeit all storage fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow.
      (2)    This division (B) shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility
owned or operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.21)
Editor’s note:
   This section was formerly based on KRS 376.275(1) and (2), which subsections
were repealed in 2021.
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2) may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this subsection
shall be subject to prior recorded liens unless released by any existing
lienholder pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928 shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the vehicle. If a
lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle
under this division (C) within 45 days of notification, and all lienholders
agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title
under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. Nothing in
this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to a lien, except as
provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936, 359.230 and 376.275, and the owner does not exercise the right to
take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of
notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility
may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition, no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section
shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20, nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Helmets required for two-wheel motor vehicle operators
Golf Carts
   
73.20   Purpose
   
73.21   Definitions
   
73.22   Additional restrictions on golf cart usage
   
73.23   Inspection and permits
   
73.24   Roadway usage
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person, except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating/riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway, except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 HELMETS REQUIRED FOR TWO-WHEEL MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall be illegal for any person
under 18 years of age to operate or use a two-wheel motor vehicle without the
use of an approved safety helmet on any city street within the jurisdictional
confines of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The term TWO-WHEEL MOTOR VEHICLE includes any vehicle having two
wheels and having a motor vehicle propulsion engine.
      (2)   The term TO OPERATE AND USE includes both the vehicle operator and
any passenger(s) who may ride on said vehicle.
      (3)   The AGE OF THE VEHICLE OPERATOR OR USER shall be determined on the
date of the alleged offense.
      (4)   An AUTHORIZED SAFETY HELMET shall be any safety helmet which has
been approved for use by the Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) (Ord. passed 4-16-1990) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.20 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations to
allow for safe and lawful operation of golf carts upon city streets within the
city as an alternative means of transportation. The provisions of this
subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that is not used on a public roadway.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 73.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds of a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, which include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   Headlamps;
         (b)   Front and rear turn signal lamps;
         (c)   Tail-lamps;
         (d)   Stop lamps;
         (e)   Reflex reflectors: one red on each side as far as to the rear as
practicable, and one red on the rear;
         (f)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
         (g)   A parking brake;
         (h)    A windshield that conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety
standard on glazing materials (49 C.F.R. § 571.205);
         (i)   A Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly conforming to 49 C.F.R. §
571.209 that is installed at each designated seating position; and
         (j)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county charter county government, urban-county
government, consolidated local government, unified local government or a
special district.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 73.22 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON GOLF CART USAGE.
    Golf carts shall also comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   A standard noise reducing muffler shall be used. No cutouts or
straight pipes are allowed.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of the golf cart and
to stop and hold the golf cart under any condition of operation.
   (C)   Tires must have sufficient tread for safe use on city streets. The
operator of a golf cart on any city street shall obey all state motor vehicle
traffic rules and regulations as well as all manufacturers’ recommendations for
said golf cart.
   (D)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with
KRS 189.820. When operated on a designated city street a golf cart shall have a
bicycle safety flag, which extends not less than seven feet above the ground,
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (E)   No person operating a golf cart on a city street shall:
      (1)   Operate a golf cart without having a valid driver’s license in the
operator’s possession;
      (2)   Operate a golf cart without having insurance in compliance with KRS
304.39-080 and proof of said insurance inside the cart at all times during
operation;
      (3)   Operate a golf cart on any roadway where the posted speed limit is
more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Cross a highway at an intersection where the posted speed limit is
35 mph or more. Notwithstanding, the Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the
operation of a golf cart on a public roadway designated hereunder that crosses
a state-maintained highway under its jurisdiction if it determines that such
prohibition is necessary in the interest of public safety;
      (5)   Operate a golf cart between sunset and sunrise; and/or
      (6)   Operate on the private property of another without the written and
dated permission of that property owner.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-17-2020)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 INSPECTION AND PERMITS.
   (A)    Any person who intends to operate a golf cart on any city street
within the limits shall have the golf cart initially inspected by the County
Sheriff or his or her designee to ensure the golf cart is in compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter. Such inspection is subject to a fee as set
forth in KRS 189.286(3).
   (B)   The city shall also issue a permit for the operation of a golf cart
within the city and a sticker or decal shall be displayed at all times. Golf
carts which bare an official permit issued by the city shall be numbered and
affixed to the lower left side (driver's side) of the windshield of the
vehicle. The City Clerk shall prepare an application form for the special
permit and charge a yearly fee $25 for each permit issued annually. Subsequent
renewals of the permit shall be due on or before January 1 of each year. Any
initial permits or renewal permits issued after January 1 shall not be prorated
and shall be subject to the full and entire yearly permit fee of $25. Insurance
and proof of inspection by a certified inspector shall be presented prior to
issuance of the first official permit issued for a specific golf cart.
Following the initial inspection associated with a specific golf cart by a
certified inspector, the requirements for subsequent renewal of the permit
described herein shall be the completion of an application, proof of insurance,
and the fee of $25.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 73.24 ROADWAY USAGE.
    Pursuant to KRS 189.286(2), the city may authorize and regulate the
operation of a golf cart on any public roadway under its jurisdiction if it
adopts an ordinance specifying each roadway that is open for golf cart use.
Accordingly, golf carts meeting the requirements set forth herein are allowed
to be used on any local roadway that meet the speed limitations and are under
the jurisdiction of the city. Notwithstanding, the city expressly reserves the
right to restrict the usage of said golf carts on certain roadways falling
within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where there is not a
penalty already provided shall be deemed to have committed a violation and
shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
   (B)   If any individual is charged with violating §
73.05 of this chapter, the penalty for the first offense shall be $10. The
penalty for the second offense shall be $25. The penalty for the third offense
shall be $50 and/or confiscation of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
73.20 through
73.24 of this chapter shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined not
less than $100, nor more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent
violation of §§
73.20 through
73.24 of this chapter within two years of a prior conviction under §§
73.20 through
73.24 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $250, nor more than $500.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-
17-2020)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Vehicles exceeding the allowable gross weight are prohibited on the
following streets:
 
Street              Allowable Gross Weight Ord. No. Date
Mine Equipment Road 10 tons                -        7-18-1977
Munn Street         10 tons                -        10-15-1979
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the fine schedule set forth in KRS 189.990(2).
However, in no case shall the fine be less than $100, nor more than $500.
(KRS 189.990(2)) (Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   RECREATION
      
96.   ADDRESS AND PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
      
98.   VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
      
99.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping vicious and wild animals prohibited
   
90.08   Removing animal’s excrement
Dogs
   
90.20   Dogs running at large
   
90.21   Noise disturbance
   
90.22   Impoundment
   
90.23   Disposition of impounded dog
   
90.24   Maximum number of dogs permitted
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of all rights and claims by the owner to the
animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any domestic canine three months of age or older.
   KENNEL. Any person, partnership, corporation, limited liability company or
any other business entity maintaining an establishment where dogs are kept for
the purpose of breeding, buying, selling, showing or boarding, or engaged in
the training of dogs for guard or sentry purposes. KENNEL shall not include
licensed veterinary clinics, properly licensed and zoned commercial retail pet
shops, state or federally regulated animal research facilities for the city’s
police K-9 unit.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or physically injures human
beings, domestic animals or livestock without adequate provocation, or which
because of temperament or training has a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack, bite or physically injure human beings, domestic animals
or livestock. Any wild animal or any animal that without provocation has bitten
or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima facie presumed vicious
or dangerous. This definition shall not apply to dogs used by law enforcement
officers in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided herein in causing it
to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to, being a
spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
division (A)(3).
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., or
subject to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six; except that, any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or any person authorized by
the Council may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner, of
the animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 KEEPING VICIOUS AND WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of vicious animals and/or large wild animals is
prohibited. No person shall keep any vicious animal and/or large wild animal,
whether owned by him or her or not, on his or her property within the city.
   (B)   The foregoing section is a necessary control on the unrestrained
activities of vicious animals and/or large wild animals which threaten the
safety and pleasantness of streets, parks, sidewalks, yards and all areas of
the city and lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to a
violation thereof.
   (C)   The keeping of livestock is prohibited. No person shall keep any
livestock, whether owned by him or her, or not on his or her property within
the city, except grand-fathered farms, those animals approved by the Board of
Adjustment or those zoned RU (Rural District).
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 REMOVING ANIMAL’S EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall allow any animal owned by the person or under his or
her custody, control or possession to be upon public property or upon the
property of another, absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property, without some device for the removal and containment of the animal’s
excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any excrement deposited by any
animal owned by that person or under his or her control on public property or
private property of another, absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person or the city’s police K-9 unit.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by
frequent and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he or she occupies or owns
shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Every police officer, peace officer or other authorized official shall
have the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and to impound such dog or have such dog impounded in the appropriate
place.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every police officer to obtain the name of the
owner or keeper and to issue a citation for the owner’s or keeper’s appearance
in court.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. passed 6-21-1982)
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOG.
   Any dog seized or impounded shall be disposed of as provided in KRS Ch. 258.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. passed 6-21-1982)
§ 90.24 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep at any one residence within the city
limits more than five dogs with the exception that the owner(s) who has custody
of the dog may retain the puppies born of the dog which exceeds the permissible
numbers set forth within this section for a period of 12 weeks after birth of
the animals. Any retention of dogs in excess of the number will result in
violation.
   (B)   Any establishment or person who owns or maintains five or more
unaltered domestic dogs of the same species for the purpose of breeding,
buying, selling, showing, companionship and/or boarding within the city shall
be deemed a business.
   (C)   Any establishment, as described in division (B) above, located within
the city limits, shall be compliant, at all times, with the Animal Welfare Act,
being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq.
   (D)   The establishment will be subject to unannounced inspections at any
time from federal, state and local officials; as well as doctors of
veterinarian medicine. Any fees incurred from the inspection will be the
responsibility of the establishment at the time of the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, other than the
provisions of §
90.03 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, and not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day that the violation of this chapter continues shall be a
separate and distinct offense and punishable as such.
   (C)   Each section of the chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of this chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
   (D)   A citation may be issued when two valid complaints are received within
a three-day period on a residence relating to the maximum number of dogs and
witnessed by law enforcement. In addition, the person may be ordered by the
court to reduce the number of animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 436.660
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Street dedication; construction standards
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Planning, see
Ch. 153
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 of this chapter shall be forfeited.
      (2)   Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate city
fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference
between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration services
performed by it.
      (3)   If the amount of such services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper administrative
officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 STREET DEDICATION; CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Under the law of the state, any person may file a written request
offering to dedicate a new or existing street, way or thoroughfare to the city
and the city can either accept or reject the dedication. If accepted, the city
would be legally responsible for the maintenance of the street, way and
thoroughfare. Historically, the construction standards for streets, ways and
thoroughfares have been non-existent and the city has determined that a uniform
method of dedication of proposed streets is appropriate.
   (B)   Pursuant to this section, any party seeking a dedication of a street,
way or thoroughfare by the city must first comply with the requirements of KRS
82.400 which sets forth the specific steps required for dedication.
   (C)   (1)   The city has determined that no street, way or thoroughfare will
be accepted for dedication unless it meets the following construction
standards.
      (2)   All streets and public ways shall in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Streets shall be graded to their full width, including side
slopes, and to the appropriate grade. They shall be surfaced to a width of at
least 24 feet for minor streets and to the engineer’s specifications for
collector and major streets including gutters, with a minimum of one-inch
bituminous concrete surface, two-inch bituminous concrete binder and six-inch
compacted dense graded aggregate base.
         (b)   All bituminous concrete shall include a tack coat. The subgrade
and pavement shall be graded from shoulder to shoulder 30 feet with a crown of
three-sixteenths-inch per foot. Ditches shall be sloped three to one and back
slopes shall be two to one. The minimum size drain pipe under driveways shall
be 12 inches in diameter. The curb may be a roll type where aprons and drives
join. The surfacing contractor shall certify by a notarized statement to the
city that the correct amounts of crushed stone and bituminous concrete surface
were applied. The city shall be notified at least five days prior to any
placing of blacktop in order that the rock base may be inspected.
         (c)   After approval of the final plat and the posting of an
acceptable bond, the developer shall place a minimum of four inches of
compacted D.G.A. base on all streets.
            1.   This does not necessarily mean that four inches of the base is
subtracted from the total six inches required for final approval of street
surfaces.
            2.   There shall be six inches of D.G.A. required, even if the
original four inches mentioned above has been absorbed by the street.
            3.   The purpose of this requirement is to allow for adequate
access for public and private vehicles into the area during construction
period.
            4.   All roadway improvements (including raw material and
construction methodology) shall be subject to inspection and approved by the
city or an engineer hired by the city.
         (d)   In proposing a street, way or thoroughfare the proposal must
include within the plat a provision for a minimum 50-foot easement (25 feet on
each side of the centerline) for purposes of constructing and maintaining a
utility easement. The easement shall be granted in favor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 12-5-1988)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
    Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
    Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
    The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
    The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting, as provided herein,
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
    This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program;
provided, all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
    The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Surface Mining
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Surface mining operations prohibited
Fire and Health Hazards
   
92.35   Building abandonment requirement; unfit for human habitation
   
92.36   Allowing the development of fire and/or health hazard prohibited
   
92.37   Filing complaint; inspection
   
92.38   Abatement procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the
commonwealth as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded
against as is provided in this subchapter or in accordance with any other
provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt,
damage or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds. The existence of thistles, burdock, jimson weeds, ragweeds,
milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds and all other noxious weeds and
rank vegetation in excess of a height of 12 inches;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing
and maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less
than eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curbline of any street intersects the curbline of another street. No
shrub shall be planted between the curbline and the property line of any street
within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curbline of any street
intersects with the curbline of another street;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors;
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the city limits, except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes; and
      (9)   Drilling for natural gas or oil. It shall be unlawful to engage in
any type of exploration or drilling for natural gas or oil within 150 feet of
any building within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 11-2-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in state law, it shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant or person having control or management of any land within the city to
permit a public nuisance, health hazard or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized
by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 381.770) (Prior Code, § 92.04)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)
SURFACE MINING
§ 92.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS.
      (1)   Activities conducted on the surface of lands in connection with a
surface mine and surface impacts incident to an underground coal mine,
including excavation for the purpose of obtaining coal and including such
common methods as contour, strip, auger, extended depth secondary recovery
systems, mountaintop removal, box cut, open pit and area mining; the use of
explosives and blasting; “in situ” distillation or retorting; leaching or other
chemical or physical processing; cleaning, concentrating or other processing or
preparation; and the loading of coal at or near the mine site.
      (2)   SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS shall also include the areas upon which
such activities occur or where such activities disturb the natural land
surface. These areas shall also include any adjacent land the use of which is
incidental to any such activities, all lands affected by the construction of
new roads or the improvement or use of existing roads to gain access to the
site of such activities and for haulage, and excavations, workings,
impoundments, dams, ventilation shafts, entryways, refuse banks, dumps,
stockpiles, overburden piles, spoil banks, culm banks, tailings, holes or
depressions, repair areas, storage areas, processing areas, shipping areas and
other areas upon which are sited structures, facilities or other property or
materials on the surface resulting from or incident to such activities.
      (3)   This definition includes the terms STRIP MINING of coal and the
SURFACE EFFECTS OF UNDERGROUND MINING of coal as used in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. A-63, passed 10-6-1984)
§ 92.21 SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS PROHIBITED.
   Surface mining operations within the city limits and any underground mining
operations which would also create possible damage to the surface are hereby
declared a nuisance and are prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in such operations within the city limits or for the owner of any land
to permit such operations on any land owned by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) (Ord. A-63, passed 10-6-1984) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE AND HEALTH HAZARDS
§ 92.35 BUILDING ABANDONMENT REQUIREMENT; UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a fire and/or health hazard shall
be restricted to abandoned dwellings or buildings which have remained
unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months and which cause or contribute
to an existing or potential fire and/or health hazard to adjacent landowners.
   (B)   The specific factors for determining a fire and/or health hazard shall
be the state of construction of the residence or building. Residences or
buildings which have been abandoned and which are unfit for human habitation
shall be deemed a fire and/or health hazard. A building shall be deemed unfit
for human habitation, if it meets the abandonment requirement and if it
contains conditions which are dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of want or failure of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing,
lighting, ventilation or construction; a source of infection and/or contagious
diseases; or, unsafe and unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
occupants or adjacent dwellings and/or buildings; constitute a grave or serious
risk of death or injury to persons who come upon the premises; or, which create
a fire hazard to adjacent property and landowners.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply equally to outbuildings
and fences which are maintained in a dilapidated condition and which are in
such state of decay or partial ruin by neglect or misuse as to create a grave
risk of death or serious injuries to persons who come in contact with said
buildings and/or fences.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. passed 12-19-1988)
§ 92.36 ALLOWING THE DEVELOPMENT OF FIRE AND/OR HEALTH HAZARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner, occupant or person having control or
management of a building or dwelling located in the city to allow his or her
premises to develop as set forth in §
92.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. passed 12-19-1988) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 FILING COMPLAINT; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any citizen or representative of the city may file a verbal or written
complaint with the Mayor and/or City Council member or with the Police or Fire
Department.
   (B)   (1)   Upon notice of a complaint, the Chief of Police and the head of
the Fire Department or their designated representative will, without entering
the premises, conduct a visual inspection of the subject premises.
      (2)   Specifically, the inspectors shall view the dwellings to determine
whether or not those dwellings are unfit for human habitation and whether or
not the erection, use or maintenance of the dwelling constitutes a dangerous
hazard to adjacent landowners, buildings or public use of streets. Any
building, house or structure which is so out of repair and dilapidated that it
constitutes a fire or health hazard due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect and as such endangers the public health, welfare or safety, or
materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of owners of adjacent
property as a result of a fire or health hazard, shall be targeted for
abatement.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) (Ord. passed 12-19-1988)
§ 92.38 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the following abatement procedure to ensure
adequate notice to appropriate landowners, so that the landowners may have
sufficient time to abate the fire and/or health hazard. Additionally, if the
landowner fails to take appropriate action to abate the fire and/or health
hazard, this subchapter shall constitute a means for the city to abate the fire
and/or health hazard and to attempt to recover the cost of abatement.
   (B)   Once a complaint of fire and/or health hazard under this subchapter
has been made and once the visual inspection has been completed by the Chief of
Police and head of the Fire Department or their designated representatives has
been completed, they shall report to the Mayor and the City Council. If a fire
and/or health hazard is found to exist, a written report shall be filed with
the City Council. The City Council will review the situation at the next
regularly scheduled meeting to determine whether or not further proceedings to
abate the fire and/or health hazard are warranted.
   (C)   If the City Council determines that further proceedings are required,
the City Attorney shall notify the affected landowner by writing, with personal
service of process by the County Sheriff or through certified mail, return
receipt requested. The notice must be in writing and must set forth the
specific situations which constitute the fire and/or health hazard.
Additionally, the letter shall set forth a specific period of time in which the
landowner may abate the health and/or fire hazard.
   (D)   Within the time period set for abatement of the health and/or fire
hazard, the landowner must notify the Chief of Police and head of the Fire
Department and meet with those individuals or their designated representatives
to review the efforts at abatement. If the efforts at abatement do, in fact,
abate the fire and/or health hazard to the satisfaction of the representatives
of the city, then no further action shall be required. If the efforts at
abatement have not alleviated the enumerated problems, the landowner shall be
given an additional period of time to complete the abatement process to the
satisfaction of the city. This additional period of time shall be determined by
the nature of the abatement requirement and the circumstances surrounding the
specific incident requiring abatement.
   (E)   If the landowner fails to abate the fire and/or health hazard within
the time period set within the notice or if the letter is returned to the City
Attorney “addressee unknown” or otherwise after having been mailed to the last
known address or the address maintained for said property owner with the County
Property Evaluation Office, then constructive service of process shall be
deemed to have occurred.
   (F)   The failure of abatement shall be reported to the City Council who
shall determine by majority vote whether or not the city could undertake
abatement of the nuisance. If the City Council determines that abatement is
appropriate, then the City Council shall arrange for the building to be
prepared and/or demolished and the lot cleaned, as may be deemed appropriate
under the specific circumstances.
   (G)   A final report of abatement shall be filed with the city by the
parties charged with the responsibility of abatement on behalf of the city.
   (H)   If personal service of process is received upon the landowner and if
the landowner fails to voluntarily abate the premises so that the city must
complete the process, then the City Council may direct the City Attorney to
attempt to recover the cost of abatement in civil court proceedings. If a
judgment is obtained against the landowner, said judgment shall constitute a
lien for payment of the indebtedness and appropriate civil remedies may be
taken to sell the land to satisfy the indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) (Ord. passed 12-19-1988)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Open burning
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   The term FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration
or detonation, and which meets the definition of “common” or “special”
fireworks as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2. Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   COMMON FIREWORKS are fireworks suitable for use by the public and
designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion and must comply
with the construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission. The types, sizes and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. COMMON FIREWORKS are classified as Class C explosives by
the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   DIPPED STICK-SPARKLER. Stick or wire coated with pyrotechnic
composition that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. Total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Those devices containing any
perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five grams of pyrotechnic
composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no magnesium and which
contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not included in this
category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   CYLINDRICAL FOUNTAIN. Cylindrical tube not more than three-
fourths inch (19 millimeters) inside diameter, containing up to 75 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks, and
sometimes a whistling effect, is produced. This device may be provided with a
spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or plastic base
for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard handle, if
intended to be hand-held (handle fountain).
         (c)   CONE FOUNTAIN. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain.
         (d)   ILLUMINATING TORCH. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held.
         (e)   WHEEL. Pyrotechnic device attached to a post or tree by means of
a nail or string. Each wheel may contain up to six “driver” units: tubes not
exceeding one-half inch (12.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing up to
60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   GROUND SPINNER. Small device similar to a wheel in design and
effect and placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is
produced by the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   FLITTER SPARKLER. Narrow paper tube filled with pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. This device does not
have a fuse for ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is ignited to make
the device function.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   SKY ROCKET. Tube not exceeding one-half inch (12.5 millimeters)
inside diameter that may contain up to 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. SKY
ROCKETS contain a wooden stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air
upon ignition. A burst of color or noise or both is produced at the height of
flight.
         (b)   MISSILE-TYPE ROCKET. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   HELICOPTER, AERIAL SPINNER. A tube not more than one-half inch
(12.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing up to 20 grams of pyrotechnic
composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon ignition, lifts the
rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is produced
at the height of flight.
         (d)   ROMAN CANDLES. Heavy paper or cardboard tube not exceeding
three-eighths inch, (9.5 millimeters) inside diameter and containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   MINE, SHELL. Heavy cardboard or paper tube up to two and one-
half inches (63.5 millimeters) inside diameter attached to a wood or plastic
base and containing up to 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition,
stars, firecrackers or other devices are propelled into the air. The tube
remains on the ground.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   FIRECRACKERS, SALUTES. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon
ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   CHASER. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
      (4)   Combination items. Firework devices containing combinations of two
or more of the effects described in categories (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) above.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
      (1)   SNAKE, GLOW WORM. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   SMOKE DEVICE. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   WIRE SPARKLER. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   TRICK NOISEMAKER. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include the following.
         (a)   PARTY POPPER. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   BOOBY TRAP. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   SNAPPER. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   TRICK MATCH. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   CIGARETTE LOAD. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   AUTO BURGLAR ALARM. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   The term SPECIAL FIREWORKS shall mean large fireworks designed
primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration or
detonation. This term includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing
more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells
containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display
pieces which exceed the limits for classification as common fireworks. SPECIAL
FIREWORKS are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail
sale provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect
thereto are met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) and division (D)
below are not legal for retail sale, but are legal under permits granted
pursuant to this chapter for the purposes specified in this chapter for public
displays and may be sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any fireworks, except for the following.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of individuals.
Every display shall be handled by a competent operator to be approved by the
public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of such character,
and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the official, after
proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person.
Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at least 15
days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division (A) shall
be transferable. For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any fireworks for supervised displays by
any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in accordance with
regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, if the sale is
to the person holding a display permit as outlined in division (A) above. The
permit holder shall present the permit along with other verifiable
identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale, at wholesale, of any kind of fireworks by any resident
manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber; provided, the fireworks are
intended for shipment directly out of state in accordance with regulations of
the U.S. Department of Transportation.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02 of this chapter, the common fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1) of this chapter may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept
with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person or business intending to sell common fireworks shall
register annually with the State Fire Marshal’s office in accordance with KRS
227.715, and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at
the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have a working
fire extinguisher at the site, in compliance with NFPA Pamphlet 10.
   (D)   No common fireworks item shall be offered for sale if it has as part
of its device any wings, fins or other mechanism designed to cause the device
to fly, or if it carries a cautionary label which includes in its description
any of the following terms: explosive, emits flaming pellets, flaming balls,
firecracker, report or rocket.
   (E)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any common
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) of this chapter to any person under 16 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(3) - (6)) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 of this chapter unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of
liability insurance deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the
permit is made, in a sum not less than $1,000,000.
   (B)   However, the appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may
require a larger amount if, in his or her judgment, the situation requires it,
conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be caused thereby either
to a person or to property by reason of the permitted display, and arising from
any acts of the licensee, his or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   The State Fire Marshal shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at
the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or
exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this chapter. All fireworks
held, possessed or used in violation of this chapter shall be destroyed as
contraband.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or agent thereof may kindle or maintain
any open fire, except paper, cardboard, untreated lumber, trees, brush and
other similar items included therein. All other materials are strictly
prohibited. During the construction or demolition of buildings or other
structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on
the premises or in the immediate vicinity without first notifying the Fire
Chief or his or her designees.
   (B)   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less
than 18 years of age. A garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire
extinguishment equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of
the open fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or his or her designees may prohibit any or all open
fires when natural conditions, the materials being burned or local
circumstances make such fires potentially hazardous or harmful.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) (Ord. passed 11-15-2004)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04 of this chapter, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued
thereunder, or who knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to
violate the provisions of those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   All individuals or entities in violation of §
93.22 of this chapter shall receive a warning for the first offense and shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor upon the second offense and shall be fined no less
than $20, nor more than $500, for each violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 11-15-2004)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle, upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not; except that, the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: RECREATION
Section
Lake Beshear
   
95.01   Compliance with Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources regulations
   
95.02   Easement open to the public
   
95.03   Easement control regulations and prohibitions
   
95.04   Permit required to construct walks, ramps, steps or docks on easement
   
95.05   Maintenance of easement by private property owners
   
95.06   Use of private facilities
   
95.07   Private beach license
   
95.08   Commercial enterprise regulations and licensing
   
95.09   Enforcement
City Parks
   
95.20   Curfew
 
   
95.99   Penalty
LAKE BESHEAR
§ 95.01 COMPLIANCE WITH DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND WILDLIFE RESOURCES REGULATIONS.
   All boats used on Lake Beshear shall abide by the regulations of the State
Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 EASEMENT OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   The use of the 50-foot easement surrounding Lake Beshear shall be open
to the public, including the owners of private property adjacent to the 50-foot
easement.
   (B)   The 50-foot easement shall remain open for the purpose of passage
around the lake.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 95.03 EASEMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   The following regulations will apply to the 50-foot easement surrounding
Lake Beshear.
   (A)   There will be no littering of the 50-foot easement and lake.
   (B)   No walks, ramps, steps and docks other than those erected by
commercial enterprises provided for in §
95.08 of this chapter will be constructed on the 50-foot easement unless
private land is owned adjacent to the lake, and such improvements can then only
be constructed by the owners of the adjacent land and under the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   There shall be no camping, loitering, picnicking, drinking or any
other activity that would interfere with the public use for which the 50-foot
easement was intended.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT WALKS, RAMPS, STEPS OR DOCKS ON EASEMENT.
   (A)   No owner of privately-owned land adjoining Lake Beshear shall erect or
construct walks, ramps, steps or docks on the 50-foot easement between the
property owned by them and the lake, unless a permit has been applied for by
the private property owner and issued by the City Council pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Except for proper commercial facilities to serve the public as
provided in §
95.08 of this chapter, no structures, except walks, ramps, steps and docks,
shall be constructed or erected on the 50-foot easement by the owners of
adjacent privately-owned property, as set out in division (A) above, and the
permit granted by the city shall so provide.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 MAINTENANCE OF EASEMENT BY PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Owners of private property adjacent to the 50-foot easement surrounding Lake
Beshear shall have the right to cut grass and undergrowth on the easement, and
to care for and maintain that part of the easement, but they shall not cut or
remove trees of the diameter of six inches or larger.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 USE OF PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   Fishers, hunters and other persons using Lake Beshear shall have the right
to use and cross the 50-foot easement, but they shall have no right to use any
private facilities which are constructed and erected by owners of private
property adjacent thereto, nor shall they have any right to use any facilities
thereon which are constructed and erected pursuant to the provisions of §
95.08 of this chapter, without properly renting the same from the owners of the
commercial enterprise thereon.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PRIVATE BEACH LICENSE.
   Owners of private property adjacent to Lake Beshear may secure from the city
a private beach license for the 50-foot easement by application to the City
Council and payment of a license fee of $10 per year for such use.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE REGULATIONS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Any person who has title to, or the right to use, land adjacent to
Lake Beshear, and who has a right-of-way to such property which will allow
service to guests and customers, may make application to the City Council for a
license to use the lake and such part of the 50-foot easement as the
application may designate for a commercial enterprise.
   (B)   The City Council may, upon such terms as it deems desirable, issue the
applicant a license to operate for profit a commercial marina or dock, or a
commercial swimming beach. The applicant shall pay an annual fee for said
license in an amount to be set by the City Council by ordinance.
   (C)   The commercial uses which may be licensed shall include, but are not
limited to, the erection and construction on the 50-foot easement of
improvements such as ramps, tents, camping sites, picnic tables and other
picnic facilities, facilities for the sale of bait and similar supplies,
camping supplies, boat slips, rental of boats, motors and camp pads; provided,
however, that, no commercial facility shall be constructed so as to impede
public passage across the 50-foot easement.
   (D)   The application to the City Council for a license for each commercial
enterprise on the lake and the 50-foot easement shall expressly offer and agree
to hold the city, its officers and employees, harmless from any and all claims
by the public which may arise from the operation and use of the commercial
enterprise. The city, its officers and employees, shall, in no way, be liable
or responsible for injuries, accidents or other misfortunes, if any, arising
from the use of Lake Beshear and the 50-foot easement. Before any such license
shall be granted, the applicant therefor shall procure at his or her own
expense a liability insurance policy, which shall include minimum liability
limits of $100,000/$300,000.
(Prior Code, § 95.08) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.09) (Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
CITY PARKS
§ 95.20 CURFEW.
   (A)   A curfew for park use of 12:00 midnight, with notice of the same to be
clearly and conspicuously posted at all park entrances; provided that, persons
desiring to hold special events at the parks requiring a later curfew may
request the same from the Mayor’s office, which office may grant a curfew
extension on a case by case basis, if it is considered, in the Mayor’s sole
discretion, that such event and curfew extension is in the best interests of
the public welfare.
   (B)   The Police Department of the city is hereby given the authority to
enforce such a curfew by the issuance of a citation and fine in an amount not
to exceed $100 for curfew violation.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. passed 7-19-1999)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   There is imposed a penalty of not less than $25, nor more than $500, for any
violation set out herein, and each day in which a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 96: ADDRESS AND PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
Section
   
96.01   Numbering system established
   
96.02   Placement of address numbers
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city has determined an address and property numbering system is in
the best interest of the citizens of the city, and will be useful and necessary
in the formation of a 9-1-1 system in the county, and is useful in the location
of persons for emergencies, ambulance service and fire protection service.
   (B)   Therefore, the numbering system is established and shall be maintained
for all houses and businesses located inside the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 96.02 PLACEMENT OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   Any homeowner or property owner shall place a number at least three inches
tall above or beside the front door of the house or business. In the event a
rural mailbox is used, the property owner shall also place a number at least
one inch tall on both sides of the mailbox. If a rural box is not used and door
numbers are not visible, property must be marked with a readily visible number
not more than 50 feet from curb or roadside to identify the property to law
enforcement and emergency personnel. In the event certain circumstances do not
fit the above placement of numbers, contact the Police Department for
instructions to comply. These numbers shall be in place on or before 11-1-1990.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $5, nor more than $100. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
97.07   Exemption
   
97.08   Administration
   
97.09   Education and conciliation
   
97.10   Enforcement
   
97.11   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
97.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
97.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
97.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
97.04 through
97.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure of portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
97.07 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B);
   (B)   Nothing in §
97.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that,
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B)(1) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale, or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further that, the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this title only if such house
is sold or rented: without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and without the publication, posting or mailing,
after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
97.04(C) of this chapter; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 97.03) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
97.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
97.03(B) and 97.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination; and/or
   (D)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion
or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 97.04) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin of such
person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such loan
or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given; provided that, nothing contained
in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception
contained in §
97.03(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.05) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her, the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 97.06) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 97.07) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall, by rule,
prescribe such rights to appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to
boards of officers or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 97.08) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall
endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 97.09) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Mayor shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing
to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor
decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate
or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of
conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of
such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the
Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will
assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter
commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or order
such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 97.10) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such person as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that, the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of such materials,
or the appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a
civil action in the United States district court for the district in which the
investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena required appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires a production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
Municipal or State Court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Mayor, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of
fact in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Mayor
pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or
fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in such
reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate,
alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for more than one year, or both.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.11) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
97.03 through
97.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however,
that, the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section
or §
97.10(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result
in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of
in the complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and, provided, however, that, any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided that, the said plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 97.12) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
§ 97.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
97.03 through
97.06 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 97.13) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion or national origin,
and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing,
occupying, contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing
or occupation of any dwelling or applying for or participating in any service
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 97.14) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in §
97.14(A) of this chapter, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and
if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned
not more than ten years, or both; and, if death results, shall be subject to
imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 97.14) (Ord. passed 1-2-1996)
CHAPTER 98: VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Registration
   
98.04   Maintenance
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property because of
the vacancy.
(Ord. 92B, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to servicers.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include but are not limited to overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail, or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons, or government employees.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY. Real property within the city with one to four
dwellings units.
   VACANT. Having no legal resident or tenant. Evidence of vacancy includes any
condition that on its own, or combined with other conditions present, would
lead a reasonable person to believe that the property is vacant. Such
conditions include but are not limited to overgrown or dead vegetation,
accumulation of flyers, mail, or trash, disconnected utilities, the absence of
window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery persons,
or government employees.
(Ord. 92B, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 98.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on a residential real property located within the city, a
creditor shall inspect the residential real property to determine whether it is
vacant. If the property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the
complaint of foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is
executed, register the property as a vacant residential property with the City
Clerk for the purpose of minimizing hazards to persons and property because of
the vacancy. Registration shall be made upon a form provided by the city and
must be accompanied by the fee set forth in division (D).
   (B)   After filing the complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure, a creditor must periodically inspect the property for evidence
of vacancy. If a residential real property becomes vacant at any time after a
creditor files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of
foreclosure, the creditor shall, within ten business day after obtaining
knowledge of the vacancy, register the property as a vacant residential
property with the City Clerk and pay the fee set forth in division (D).
   (C)   Registration of a residential real property as vacant shall include
the address of the property and the name and contact information of a person
located within the Commonwealth of Kentucky who is authorized to accept
services of process on behalf of the creditor.
   (D)   The annual fee for registering vacant residential property shall be
$60 made payable to “City of Dawson Springs” and submitted to the City Clerk
along with the required registration form. Should the property remain vacant
for longer than one year, the creditor must renew the vacant property's
registration by submitting a new registration form and annual fee to the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 92B, passed 9-16-2013) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 MAINTENANCE.
   For so long as the property remains vacant, the creditor must:
   (A)   Keep the property free of garbage, litter, junk, debris, building
materials and discarded personal items.
   (B)   Keep the property free of graffiti, tagging or similar markings by
removing it or painting over it with an exterior paint that matches the color
of the exterior of the building.
   (C)   Maintain the yard by removing weeds and dead vegetation, trimming
overgrown plantings, and mowing the grass as seasonally appropriate.
   (D)   Drain pools and ensure that they remain covered and free from
accumulated water.
   (E)   Secure all buildings, including outbuildings, on the property in order
to protect them from intrusion by unauthorized persons, animals, birds and
vermin.
   (F)   Perform any maintenance or repairs necessary to ensure that the
property does not violate the city's property maintenance code, building code,
or any other city ordinance, and that it does not otherwise constitute a
nuisance.
(Ord. 92B, passed 9-16-2013) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any section contained in this chapter is a civil
offense and shall be enforced.
   (B)   Any creditor that fails to register a vacant residential property with
the city as required by §
98.03 shall be subject to a civil fine of $100 payable to the city for each day
that property is not registered.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter other than §
98.03 shall be subject to a civil fine not less that $100, but not more than
$500 per day per violation. Each date that a violation of this chapter
continues after a notice of violation or citation has been served in accordance
with the terms of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense
subject to a separate fine, up to a maximum of $5,000 per citation.
   (D)   In addition to the civil fines set forth in division (C), any creditor
who violates any provision of this chapter more than once within a 12-month
period may be assessed additional civil penalties of $200 per day per violation
to a maximum of $5,000 per citation.
   (E)   The city shall possess a lien on property for ail fines, penalties,
charges, attorneys' fees, abatement costs if the city has incurred them, and
ail other reasonable costs associated with enforcing this chapter, including
the costs of placing a lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this
provision. The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 92B, passed 9-16-2013)
CHAPTER 99: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Property Maintenance Code
   
99.01   Title
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Jurisdiction
   
99.04   Process
   
99.05   Appeal process; contesting a citation
   
99.06   Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board; appointment; terms;
removal; liability
   
99.07   General powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
99.08   Organization of Code Enforcement Board; conduct of meetings and Code
Enforcement Board members; quorum
   
99.09   Code Enforcement Board hearing; notice; and final order
   
99.10   Appeal to District Court; final judgment
   
99.11   Transfer of ownership
   
99.12   Standards and violations
   
99.13   Demolition: permit required; permit fees; double fee; demolition or
alteration of common or fire wall; liability insurance; time limit; standards
or inspections
   
99.14   Enforcement proceedings
   
99.15   Liens
   
99.16   Lienholder notification system
Vegetation
   
99.25   Title
   
99.26   Definitions
   
99.27   Tree and shrub planting; restrictions; appeal process
   
99.28   Maintenance of trees, shrubs, and street lawns; violation
   
99.29   Public nuisance abatement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 99.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “property maintenance
code.”
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY. Real property or any improvements thereon that is
vacant, unoccupied, or not in use for a period of one year and which is any of
the following: neglected, dilapidated, unsanitary, vermin infested, not
serviced by public utilities, dangerous to the safety of persons, unfit for its
intended use, by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance had become a place
for the accumulation of trash or debris, or has been tax delinquent for a
period of at least three years.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A local government’s necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any local
government ordinance.
   CODE OFFICIAL. Property Maintenance Code Enforcement officer(s) or their
duly authorized representatives, all of whom are charged with the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. In the event the city does
not have a CODE OFFICIAL, the City Attorney shall have full power and authority
to enforce this subchapter but shall have no authority to issue a violation or
citation.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, services.
   DEMOLITION. Shall be defined as the act of demolishing or raising of a
building, structure or part thereof to the ground level or as further defined
within a permit or written directive issued by a code official.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a prescribed
hearing;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided by ordinance; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided by ordinance.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life
threatening injury or death at any time.
   JUNKED APPLIANCE. Any unit, or part thereof, of machinery, furniture, or
equipment, whether functional or ornamental, and whether mechanical or powered
by some source of energy or not, including, but not limited to, stoves,
refrigerators, television sets, beds, lamps, tools, objects of art, and the
like, the condition of which upon inspection, are found to be in one or more of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative;
      (5)   Abandoned;
      (6)   Discarded;
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle, device or other contrivance, or parts
thereof, propelled by human or mechanical power that if operational, would be
used for transportation of persons or property on public streets and highways,
which upon inspection, are found to be in one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative;
      (5)   Abandoned;
      (6)   Discarded;
   OFFENSES.
      (1)   FIRST OFFENSE. A violation of this property maintenance code as per
a citation issued on a specific parcel or property on one occasion within 24-
month period.
      (2)   SECOND OFFENSE. Any combination of violations of this property
maintenance code as per citation issued on a specific parcel of property on two
occasions within a 24-month period.
      (3)   THIRD + OFFENSE. Any combination of violations of this property
maintenance code as per a citation issued on a specific parcel of property on
three or more occasions within a 24-month period.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property;
   ORDINARY VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on a
public street or sidewalk or adjacent real property.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
   PERSON. Any individual firm, business, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. The “nuisance code” as that term is defined in
KRS 82.700(3). It shall consist of all the provisions set forth herein and any
pursuant to KRS 82.700 et seq. and/or other state law or other nuisance
statutes, as maybe amended from time to time.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD or CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD or
BOARD. The administrative body erected and acting under the authority of the
KRS 82.700 to 82.725 and other state law.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
All city citation officers and other positions authorized to enforce the
municipal code. In the event the city does not have a Property Maintenance Code
Enforcement Officer or Code Enforcement Officer, the City Attorney shall have
full power and authority to enforce this subchapter but shall have no authority
to issue a violation or citation.
   REMEDY. The action taken to abate any nuisance, in order to bring the
property determined to be in violation, into compliance with the requirements
of this property maintenance code.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Any real property in which a person receives payment by
another for use or occupation of the property, however it shall not include the
primary residence of the person receiving payment by another for the use or
occupation of the property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Real property with one to four dwelling units.
   VACANT. Any real property with no legal resident or tenant. Evidence of
vacancy includes any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include but are not limited to overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail, or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons, or government employees.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.03 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer and Code Enforcement Board shall have
jurisdiction over and shall enforce this property maintenance code and all
other ordinances hereafter adopted which specifically provide for the
enforcement by the Code Enforcement Officer(s) or Code Enforcement Board, in
the manner set forth herein.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.04 PROCESS.
   (A)   Powers and responsibilities of the Code Officer(s) include, but are
not limited to, conducting investigations, conducting inspections, recording
and documenting conditions, obtaining outscored inspection services, issuance
of notice of violation or other notice as authorized herein, issuance of
citation, appeal process, abatement of nuisance, right of entry, modifications,
and all other powers vested under applicable statutes and this property
maintenance code.
   (B)   Enforcement proceedings under the property maintenance code shall be
initiated by the issuance of a notice of violation or a citation by a Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Except as provided herein, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes,
based on his or her personal observation or investigation, that a person has
violated the property maintenance code, he or she is authorized to issue a
citation to the violator. In lieu of a citation, the Code Enforcement Officer
may give the violator a notice of violation that a violation has occurred and
allow the violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without
fine. The time allowed by the Code Official shall depend on the nature of the
violation and the time necessary to remedy the violation as determined by the
Code Official. If the violator has been issued a notice of violation and fails
or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code Official
is authorized to issue a citation. Informal settlement of matters under this
subchapter is encouraged.
   (D)    The following provisions shah govern all enforcement powers,
responsibilities and procedure administered by the Code Enforcement Officer(s):
      (1)   Notice of violation. If a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based
on the Officer's personal observation or investigation, that a person has
violated the Property Maintenance Code, the Code Enforcement Officer may issue
a notice of violation to the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant,
persons having control or management of the property or other violator,
allowing that person a specified and reasonable number of days to abate the
violation. The violator may, upon request, be allowed a reasonable extension of
time to abate the violation without imposition of any charges, costs,
penalties, and fees, in the sole discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer or
Code Official. If the violator fails to abate the violation within the time
prescribed therein, the Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation for the
violation. In the event the Code Enforcement Officer is of the opinion that the
property represents an imminent danger to the public health and safety, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall have the right to require immediate action to
bring the property into compliance with this subchapter and/or take all steps
necessary to make the property safe.
      (2)   Notice of violation procedure. Notice of violation issued by Code
Enforcement Officer for violations of the property maintenance code shall
contain the following information.
         (a)   The address, location or description of the property found to be
in violation of the property maintenance code;
         (b)   The date and time of inspection;
         (c)   The name and address of the person to whom the notice is issued;
         (d)   The date the notice is issued;
         (e)   The facts constituting the violation;
         (f)   The section of the property maintenance code violated;
         (g)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
         (h)   The fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or administrative
fees, which may be imposed for the violation if it is not abated in the manner
required by the code the Code Enforcement Officer; and
         (i)   The maximum fine that may be imposed under the property
maintenance code for the violation in question.
      (3)   Issuance of citation. If a Code Enforcement Officer believes based
on the Officer's personal observation or investigation, that a person has
violated the property maintenance code, the Officer may issue a citation to the
property owner, resident, tenant, occupant, persons having control or
management of the property or other violator. The citation shall represent a
determination by the Code Enforcement Officer that a violation has been
committed and that determination shall be final unless it is contested by the
alleged violator by appealing to the Code Enforcement Board in the manner
prescribed herein.
      (4)   Citation procedure. Citations issued by a Code Enforcement Officer
for violations of the property maintenance code shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The address, location or description of the property found to be
in violation of the property maintenance code;
         (b)   The date and time of inspection;
         (c)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is
issued;
         (d)   The date the citation is issued.
         (e)   The facts consisting the offense;
            1.   The section of the property maintenance code violated;
            2.   The name of the property maintenance Code Enforcement Officer;
            3.   The fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or administrative
fees, imposed for the violation if the citation is not contested in the manner
prescribed within this section;
            4.   The maximum fine that may be imposed under this section for
the violation in question if the person elects to the contest the citation;
            5.   The procedure for the violator to follow in order to pay the
fine or to contest the citation;
            6.   A statement that if the violator fails to pay the fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed, the
violator shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing before
the Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation and the code enforcement
officer's determination that the violation occurred shall be final; and
            7.   Notice that a lien may be filed against the property on which
the violation occurred and that proceedings to enforce the lien may be
initiated to collect fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or fees, including
attorney and administrative fees.
      (5)   Type and delivery of a notice of violation or citation. A notice of
violation and a citation shall each be in writing and shall be reasonably
calculated to inform the violator of the nature of the violation. A notice of
violation and citation must each be issued by either:
         (a)   Personal service via hand-delivery to the property owner,
resident, tenant, occupant, persons having control or management of the
property or other violator; or
         (b)   Leaving a copy of the notice of the violation or citation with
any person 18 years of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged
violator is not on the premises at the time the notice of violation or citation
is issued; or
         (c)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the notice of violation or citation by regular
first-class mail of the United States Postal Service to the last known property
owner of record as listed in the Hopkins County Property Valuation office.
Owners of rental property may register their properties with the City Clerk to
receive service at any address other than that listed in the Hopkins County
Property Valuation office.
      (6)   Notification of citation to Code Enforcement Board. In the event a
property owner files a written notice appealing the issuance of a violation or
citation within the time provided by this subchapter, a copy of the citation or
violation and a copy of the appeal shall be delivered to the Code Enforcement
Board.
      (7)   Abatement of nuisance other than weeds or grass. If the violator
does not contest the citation within the time prescribed, the city may, through
methods as determined by the city, abate the nuisance and the property owner,
resident, tenant, occupant, persons having control or management of the
property or other violator at the time the violation occurred shall be liable
for all fines, fees, abatement costs, and penalties assessed for the violation.
      (8)   Abatement of weeds and grass nuisance. Upon the issuance of a
citation for weeds and/or grass nuisance, the Code Enforcement Officer may,
with the citation, serve the violator with notice that the city shall cause
such violation to be abated after the expiration of seven days if the person to
whom the citation was issued has not remedied the violation. If the person
timely contests the citation, and, after having considered the evidence in the
matter, the Code Enforcement Board dismisses the citation or that portion of
the citation alleging weeds and/or grass nuisance violations, the city may not
recover the abatement costs to remedy the alleged weeds and/or grass violations
which were dismissed.
      (9)   Emergency abatement. No section of this subchapter above shall
prohibit the city from taking immediate action to abate any violation of this
property maintenance code without prior notice to the property owner, resident,
tenant, persons having control or management of the property, or other occupant
when a code official, upon inspection of the property, has reason to believe
that a violation presents a serious and imminent threat to any person, the
public's health, safety, or welfare, or if in the absence of immediate remedial
action, the effects or consequences of a violation will, within reasonable
probability, cause irreparable or irreversible harm and/or property damage.
      (10)   Liability. The code officials charged with the enforcement of this
section, while acting within the course and scope of their duties under this
section, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally and are hereby
relieved from any and all personal liability for injuries and damage to persons
or property. Any suit instituted against any Code Enforcement Officer, code
official or employee because of a lawful act performed by that officer, code
official or employee in the discharge of duties imposed under the provisions of
this or any other section shall be defended by the city until final
adjudication of any proceedings.
      (11)   Discretionary modifications. The Code Official shall have the
discretion to modify a notice of violation or citation provided the Officer
shall first find that special circumstances that makes strict compliance with
this property maintenance code impractical and the modification is in
compliance with the intent and purpose of this property maintenance code and
that such modification does not violate health, life and fire safety
requirements.
      (12)   Each day as a separate offense. If the property owner, resident,
tenant, occupant, persons having control or management of the property, or
other violator does not abate the violation in the time provided, another
citation may be issued in accordance with division (C), for each subsequent and
separate violation of the property maintenance code and each day that such
violation remains may constitute a separate offense under this property
maintenance code.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.05 APPEAL PROCESS; CONTESTING A CITATION.
   The following details the appeal process:
   (A)   Appeal of citation. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the
citation is issued shall respond to the citation within seven days following
the issuance by either paying the fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or fees,
including administrative fees assessed therein, or by filing an appeal in
writing with the City Clerk of the City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky, at City
Hall, Dawson Springs, Kentucky, 42408, requesting a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Violation must be corrected. Payment of assessed fines, charges,
administrative fees and penalties shall not relieve the property owner,
resident, tenant, occupant, persons having control or management of the
property, or other violator from his or her obligation to bring the property on
which the violation occurred into compliance with the property maintenance code
within a reasonable time thereafter, as solely determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.06 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD; APPOINTMENT; TERMS;
REMOVAL; LIABILITY.
    There is hereby created with jurisdiction to enforce the property
maintenance code, a Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board (hereafter the
“Code Enforcement Board”), which shall be composed of three members.
   (A)   Qualifications. Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall have
resided within the city for a period of at least one year prior to appointment
to the Code Enforcement Board, and shall maintain residency throughout the term
of their appointment.
   (B)   Appointment. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city with
the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Term. All Code Enforcement Board appointments shall be for a term of
three years.
   (D)   Vacancy. If a vacancy on the Code Enforcement Board occurs, the mayor
with approval of the City Council, shall within 60 days of the vacancy, appoint
a new member or members. If the vacancy is not filled within the prescribed
time period, the City Council shall appoint a member to fill the vacancy.
   (E)   Removal. Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall only be removed
therefrom by the City Council for misconduct, inefficient or willful neglect of
duty. Prior to removal, the Mayor or member(s) of the City Council requesting
same, shall submit the removal decision in writing to the member in question
and the reasons for it.
   (F)   Liability. Members of the Code Enforcement Board charged with the
enforcement of this section, while acting on behalf of the city and within
their official duties and capacity, shall not thereby be rendered liable
personally, and are hereby relieved individually and collectively from all
personal liability for any injury and/or damages to persons or property as a
result of the discharge of official duties imposed herein. Any suit instituted
against any Code Enforcement Board member because of an act performed by that
Code Enforcement Board member in the lawful discharge of duties and under the
provisions of this section shall be defended by the legal representative of the
city until the final determination of the proceedings.
   (G)   Training. Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall receive training
related to the conduct of administrative hearings in accordance with procedures
set out in KRS 13B.080.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.07 GENERAL POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the powers to:
   (A)   Adopt any and all policies, rules and regulations, reasonably required
to implement, administer and conduct its business and hearings brought before
it.
   (B)   Conduct evidentiary hearings to determine whether there has been a
violation of the property maintenance code. Any member of the Code Enforcement
Board, including the chairperson, maybe assigned to conduct hearings on behalf
of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (C)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer, code official, or any person authorized under applicable
law.
   (D)   Take testimony under oath. The chairperson of the Code Enforcement
Board, or an assigned hearing officer, or counsel to the Code Enforcement Board
shall have the authority to administer oaths to witnesses prior to their
testimony before the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officers on any matter.
   (E)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of the property maintenance code.
   (F)   Impose fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or fees, including
administrative fees, on any person to have violated the property maintenance
code.
   (G)    Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien on the premises.
Nuisance abatement charges shall include labor, equipment usage, fuel and oil,
attorneys' fees, filing fees, publication costs, court costs, and all other
fees and charges whenever incurred by the city for the abatement of the
nuisance, enforcement of the lien and foreclosure on the property. Whenever a
bill for charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered, the
City Clerk may file with the County Clerk a nuisance abatement lien. This lien
shall contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs
incurred, the date the nuisance was abated and a notice that the city claims a
lien for charges. Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises at his or her the last known address.
   (H)   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the
matter, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days
after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.08 ORGANIZATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD; CONDUCT OF MEETINGS AND CODE
ENFORCEMENT BOARD MEMBERS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chairperson from
among its members. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full
voting member of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held as needed. A Code
Enforcement Board shall be authorized to conduct regular or special meetings in
accordance with KRS 61.805 to 61.850. The local government legislative body
shall provide clerical and administrative personnel as reasonably required by
its Code Enforcement Board for the proper conduct of the duties of the Code
Enforcement Board.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 82.700 et seq., KRS 381.770 et seq.,
Roberts Rules of Order, Open Records Act, and the city code of ethics.
   (D)   For the purpose of conducting all business and hearings brought before
it, two members of the Code Enforcement Board, shall, if present, constitute a
quorum and an affirmative vote of the members constituting a quorum shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken. Any member of the Code
Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect financial or personal interest
in any matter to be decided shall disclose the nature of the interest and shall
disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter and shall not be
counted for the purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (E)   All hearings on appeal of citations to the Code Enforcement Board
shall be recorded. Minutes, records and/or transcripts of all proceedings and
action taken shall be kept by the Code Enforcement Board and the vote of each
member on any issue decided by them shall be recorded therein.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign a hearing officer as provided by
ordinance to conduct hearings in accordance with the procedures set forth in
KRS 65.8828. Any member of the Code Enforcement Board, including the chair, may
be assigned as a hearing officer. An individual that is not a member of the
Code Enforcement Board may be assigned by the Code Enforcement Board as a
hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with a unit of local government that
created the Code Enforcement Board. Any person assigned to be a hearing officer
by a Code Enforcement Board shall have experience or shall have received
training in the code enforcement process and basic procedural due process, as
specified in the ordinance creating the Code Enforcement Board. The experience
or training shall include, at a minimum, acquired knowledge regarding a party's
fundamental due process right to: be accompanied and advised by counsel at the
hearing; present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the hearing;
examine the evidence opposing the party; and confront and cross-examine the
witnesses opposing the party. An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths
to witnesses prior to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators,
witnesses, and evidence to the hearing to which the officer is assigned. Any
hearing conducted by a hearing officer under this section shall conform to the
procedural requirements of KRS 65.8828(1) to (5). The hearing officer shall
make written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a recommended order for
consideration by the Code Enforcement Board. The hearing officer shall, within
24 hours of entry, forward these findings, conclusions, and recommended order
to the alleged violator in the manner required by KRS 65.8828(5), and to the
Code Enforcement Board for its action under KRS 65.8828. For appeals of a final
order of a hearing officer issued under this division, a final order issued by
a hearing officer under this division may be appealed by the alleged violator
to the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with terms specified in the
ordinance governing the operation of the Code Enforcement Board. If the local
government provides appeals to the Code Enforcement Board, the appeal shall be
filed in writing to the Code Enforcement Board within seven days of the receipt
of the final order. The specific appellate process is outlined in § 99.10. The
failure to file an appeal within seven days shall render the order entered by
the hearing officer final for all purposes and an individual receiving a final
order under this division shall be required to exhaust the administrative
remedy of appeal to the Code Enforcement Board before appealing to District
Court as authorized under KRS 65.8831. Thereafter, an appeal of the Code
Enforcement Board's decision may be appealed into the Hopkins District Court as
described in §
99.10.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-
09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-
16-2023)
§ 99.09 CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When an appeal has been properly filed and a hearing has been
requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall convene for the purposes of
conducting a hearing not later than 60 days after the appeal has been filed
with the City Clerk. Otherwise the Code Enforcement Board may convene for the
purpose of conducting any other business brought before it or a majority of the
membership of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before any requested hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the appellant of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. Notice shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested
at his or her last known address; or by personal delivery, or by leaving the
notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the healing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing on an appeal of a notice of violation or
citation and a determination that a violation was committed shall be entered
and become final. The Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order
confirming the violation and impose fines, charges, costs (including abatement
costs which have or are to be incurred by the city), penalties, and/or fees,
including administrative fees assessed in the citation. The Code Enforcement
Board may also direct that property owner, resident, tenant, occupant, persons
having control or management of the property, or other violator to abate the
nuisance within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days and provide for a daily
fine at a rate of not more than $ 100 per day for each beyond the time
specified to abate the violation that the violation continues to exists. A copy
of the final order shall be served upon the violator/appellant.
   (D)   When a hearing is held under this section, the Code Enforcement Board
shall elicit testimony from witnesses and allow relative demonstrative
evidence. All testimony shall be recorded by audio, video, or stenographic
means. The chairperson, any Code Enforcement Board member, or counsel to the
Code Enforcement Board shall have authority to administer the following oath.
“Do you solemnly swear and affirm to tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth”. Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement
Officer, the alleged violator and any witnesses with relevant personal
knowledge of the violation or citation on appeal. Formal rules of evidence
shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern
the proceedings.
   (E)   In making its determination, the Code Enforcement Board shall, based
solely on the evidence adduced during the hearing, determine by a preponderance
of the evidence whether or not a violation has been committed. If, at the
conclusion of the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board determines that a
violation has been committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and the Code Enforcement Board shall impose the fines, charges, costs
(including abatement costs which have or are to be incurred by the city),
penalties, and/or fees, including administrative fees assessed up to the
maximum authorized under this property maintenance code. The Code Enforcement
Board may also direct the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant, persons
having control or management of the property, or other violator to abate the
nuisance within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days and provide for a daily
fine at a rate of not more than $100 per day for each day beyond the time
specified to abate the violation that the violation continues to exists. If the
violator does not abate in the manner required and within the time provided in
the final order and a daily fine has not been imposed by the Code Enforcement
Board, another citation may be issued for the same violations.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing and shall include the findings and conclusions of the Code Enforcement
Board, the date the order was issued, and be signed by the presiding member of
the Code Enforcement Board at the time of the hearing. A copy of the final
order shall be served upon the violator/appellant.
   (G)    The Code Enforcement Officer may abate the violation in order to
bring the property into compliance with the property maintenance code if a
final order upholding the citation is entered by the Code Enforcement Board or
any court of competent jurisdiction upon the expiration of any time given to
the violator to abate the violation, if any.
   (H)   The Mayor shall preside over the hearings and shall regulate the
course of the proceedings in a manner which will promote the orderly and prompt
conduct of the hearing. The Mayor, at appropriate stages of the proceedings,
shall give the parties full opportunity to file pleadings, motions and
objections. The Mayor may issue subpoenas and discovery orders when requested
by a party and shall administer oaths to all witnesses who testify. The Mayor
shall not have a vote.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.10 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order issued by a Code Enforcement Board may
be made to the Hopkins District Court 30 days of the date the order is issued.
The appeal shall be initialed by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
code enforcement board's order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Rules of Civil Procedure. The District Court shall review the final order de
novo. If the Court finds that a violation occurred, the property owner,
resident, tenant, occupant, persons having control or management of the
property, or other violator shall be ordered to abate the violation and pay to
the city all fines, charges, costs penalties and/or fees, including
administrative fees occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the District
Court finds a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
notice of violation or citation.
   (B)   The action before the District Court shall be tried de novo and the
burden shall be upon the city to establish that a violation occurred. If the
Court finds that a violation occurred, the property owner, resident, tenant,
occupant, persons having control or management of the property, or other
violator shall be ordered to abate the violation and pay to the city all fines,
charges, costs penalties, and/or fees, including administrative fees occurring
as of the date of the judgment. If the District Court finds a violation did not
occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the notice of violation or
citation.
   (C)   A judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit Court
in accordance with the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (D)   If no appeal from a final judgment, decision or order of the Code
Enforcement Board is filed within the time period set in division (A) above,
the Code Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final and enforceable for
all purposes provided herein.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.11 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a notice of violation or citation, to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease
or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
requirements listed in the notice of violation or the violations listed in the
citation have been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any notice of violation
or citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such notice of
violation or citation and hilly accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the necessary corrections and repairs required by such notice of
violation or citation.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.12 STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   2012 International Property Maintenance Code; provisions adopted.
Provisions of 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, the Kentucky
Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code, as same may be amended from
time to time, are adopted by reference herein.
      Violations of the provisions therein shall be deemed a nuisance
enforceable by any and all provisions of this property maintenance code. Where
the language contained in the adopted provisions of the International Property
Maintenance Code, the Kentucky Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code,
as same may be amended from time to time, are in conflict with any other
provisions herein, the more restrictive language shall govern.
   (B)   Certain conditions declared unlawful.  It shall be unlawful for the
owner, resident, tenant, occupant, or persons having control or management of
any public or private land within the city to permit such to be in violation of
any provision of the International Property Maintenance Code, the Kentucky
Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code, as same may be amended from
time to time, as adopted herein, to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or
source of filth to develop thereon, or to permit such to contribute to the
material devaluation of surrounding real property due to violations of the
property maintenance code. A public nuisance shall include, but is not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Junk; scrap metal. The storage or accumulation of tires, auto
parts, storage tanks, dumpsters, junk machinery, machinery parts, abandoned,
discarded or unused appliances, junked appliances, objects or equipment,
salvage materials, or scrap metal (whether recyclable or unrecyclable) within
the city limits and within the ordinary view except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes;
      (2)   Accumulation of construction, demolition or landscaping debris. All
exterior property and premises shall be free from any accumulation of
combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including any material
resulting from maintenance, demolition, repair, alteration or construction of
buildings, structures or grounds, or landscaping or natural damage of grounds,
including, but not limited to, fallen trees, tree branches, brush and yard
trimmings;
      (3)   Exterior use or storage of indoor furniture. The use or storage of
furniture which is upholstered or not designed for outdoor use in an uncovered
or exposed area in which it is likely to decay, decompose or retain moisture
causing a health hazard.
      (4)   Compost piles. Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to
spread or harbor disease, emit unreasonable, unpleasant odors or harmful gas,
or attract rodents, vermin or other disease-carrying pests, animals or insects,
provided that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not constitute
nuisance;
      (5)   Nauseous substances or odors. The permitting of any offal, manure,
rubbish or filth, decaying animal or vegetable matter, excessive animal
excrement or any foul or nauseous substances, or nauseous or offensive odor to
be emitted or to be discharged out of or flow from the premises;
      (6)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining streets. The permitting of any
tree, shrubbery, hedge or other object to grow or stand in such a condition
that it interferes with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or
sidewalks, that could cause injury on streets or sidewalks, or that causes an
obstruction to drainage or poses a danger to life, limb or property;
      (7)   Obstruction of storm water and drainage facilities. The permitting
of any limbs, leaves, grass clippings or other objects to be placed in a manner
that interferes with the use or maintenance of any storm water and drainage
facilities;
      (8)   Visual obstructions of streets. The permitting of any hedge,
shrubbery, fence or other visual obstruction on any corner of lot to attain a
height which prohibits proper sight distance.
      (9)   Dilapidated structures. All buildings, walls and other structures
which have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise and which are in a state of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay so as not to provide shelter, sufficient
sewer, plumbing, electrical or heating facilities or which are unsound or in
danger of collapse or failure and which are a danger to safety of the public or
which are vacant or abandoned and open or accessible to vagrants or passerby or
which are otherwise built, erected or maintained in violation of any ordinance;
      (10)   Obstructions over streets. All hanging signs, awnings, canopies,
wires and other similar structures over the streets or sidewalks so situated or
constructed as to endanger public safety or to be contrary to ordinance, unless
approved by the city;
      (11)   Stagnant water. All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or
other insects can multiply;
      (12)   Accumulation of refuse/trash containers. The storing or permitting
the accumulation of refuse, unless such refuse is kept separately in standard
refuse/trash containers or dumpsters which are covered by solid, tight fitting
lids and which have no uncovered holes, and the storing or permitting the
accumulation of refuse and trash for which removal of refuse and trash is not
provided;
      (13)   Scattering garbage, etc. Throwing, placing, or scattering of any
garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse over or upon any premises, street or
alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, and either with or
without the intent to later remove or burn;
      (14)   Attractive nuisances. The allowing of any physical condition, use
or occupancy of any property or premises to be an attractive nuisance to
children, including, but not limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, standing
pools of water, basements, excavations, retaining walls, unsafe fences and
refrigerators, freezers, ice chests, ice boxes or similar airtight box or
container which has a locking device inoperable from within, without first
unhinging and removing the door or lid and detaching the locking device from
the door or lid;
      (15)   Graffiti. The allowing of any GRAFFITI, which is defined as any
inscription, drawing or design that is scratched, painted, sprayed or placed on
any surface of any structure that has no redeeming artistic, moral or social
value;
      (16)   Hoarding of materials. The accumulation of combustible materials,
trash, food, newspapers, magazines, old clothes and other items that create a
serious fire and health hazard that can cause disease, contribute to vermin
and/or insect infestations, affect the occupants or the building, neighbors,
public safety personnel and the general public, or violate any other city
safety code;
      (17)   Rubbish. An accumulation on any property of filth, refuse, trash,
garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public health, welfare, or
safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or
occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will catch or
communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents, or insects, or blow
rubbish into any sidewalk, or property of another;
      (18)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material,
including, but not limited to fireworks, which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity;
      (19)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation, except flowers or other ornamental vegetation, which are properly
maintained. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of ten inches or more.
      (20)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
property in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (21)   Junked motor vehicles. The presence of any junked motor vehicle on
public property or on any private lot, tract or parcel of land or portion
thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the city and
within ordinary view. Further, a junked motor vehicle or parts thereof shall be
considered rubbish or refuse, and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause
or maintain such public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially
dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or discarding any motor vehicle
on any real property within ordinary view. In addition to the penalties
specifically enumerated herein in Chapter 99 of the Dawson Springs' Code of
Ordinances, the City of Dawson Springs, after the issuance of at least one
citation associated herewith and the failure of the bona fide owner to remedy
the same, shall also be allowed to remove any junked motor vehicle as described
herein and recoup any towing expenses and impoundment expenses associated
therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not apply with
regard to:
         (a)   Any motor vehicle on the property of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or
         (b)   Any motor vehicle on property occupied and used for repair,
reconditioning and remodeling of motor vehicles or appliances in conformance
with the zoning code of the city; or
         (c)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.0911 that is owned
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
      (22)   Generally. In addition to this division, a public nuisance shall
also include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The physical condition or occupancy of any property regarded as
a public nuisance at common law;
         (b)   Any unsafe structure or property that is unsafe for human
habitation;
         (c)   Any property that is in imminent danger of becoming a fire or
other hazard, or is manifestly unsafe or unsecure, so as to pose an imminent
threat or danger to life, limb or property;
         (d)   Any property from which the plumbing, electrical, heating or
other facilities required by this property maintenance code have been removed
or from which utilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered
ineffective and the required precautions against trespassers have not been
provided;
         (e)    Any property that is unsanitary, littered with rubbish or
garbage or has uncontrolled weeds growing on it; and/or
         (f)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that is
overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, damaged by fire to the extent that it
is uninhabitable, in danger of collapse or failure or dangerous to anyone on or
near the property.
      (23)   Unsafe structure; imminent danger. When in the opinion of the Code
Enforcement Officer, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a
building or structure which endangers life, or when any structure or part of a
structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure,
or when there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those
in proximity of any structure because of explosive fumes or vapors or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to order and require occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The
Enforcement Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure
a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has
Been Prohibited by the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer.” It shall
be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of
demolishing the same. In the event a property owner files a written notice
appealing the issuance of a violation or citation within the time approved by
this subchapter, a copy of the citation or violation and a copy of the appeal
shall be delivered to the Code Enforcement Board.
      (24)   Problem structures. In that there is a need to establish a period
of time a problem structure may remain standing, the appropriate sections of
the International Property Maintenance Code dealing with unsafe structures and
equipment is amended to add the following:
         (a)   A problem structure is defined as a building or other structure
that poses a nuisance or danger to the public, police department or fire
department and includes, but is not limited to the definition in the
International Property Maintenance Code, as well as the following:
            1.   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of the
base;
            2.   A building, exclusive of the foundations, that shows 33% or
more damage or deterioration to its supporting members or 50% or more damage or
deterioration to its non-supporting members or to the enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
            3.   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors,
or roofs, or in which same are overloaded or have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe to occupants or the public;
            4.   A building damaged by fire, wind, seismic or other causes so
as to cause the building to become dangerous to life, limb or property of the
occupants or to the public;
            5.   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed,
unsafe, unsanitary or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities essential
to decent living that it is unfit for human habitation or is likely to cause
sickness or disease or injury to health, safety or general welfare of those
living therein;
            6.   A building having light, air and sanitation facilities that
are inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
            7.   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of
fire or other events, or having insufficient stairways, fire escapes or other
means of travel;
            8.   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property;
            9.   A building characterized by disconnected utilities, extensive
broken glass, excessive peeling or flaking paint on the exterior walls, loose
or rotting materials on the roof or the exterior walls; or
            10.   Any vacant building or structure not secured from entry or
the elements.
         (b)   When a problem structure which has been damaged by fire or
illegal activity, and which is not in danger of structural collapse, has been
closed and secured from entry and the elements and the structure continues to
remain closed and secured from entry and the elements by approved methods, it
may remain standing in a safe condition for a period not to exceed 90 days from
the date of the fire, the date of damage from illegal means or the date of the
release of the property from a governmental, criminal, fire or explosives
investigation, at which time an application must have been made for a building
permit to repair or for a demolition permit. If a building permit is requested
and approved, repair or renovation work to begin the property into compliance
must be completed within 60 days of the date of the issuance of the permit
unless an extension is granted by a Code Official or the Code Enforcement
Board. If a demolition permit is requested and approved, demolition must be
completed with the time established in the permit.
         (c)   Failure of the property owner to keep the structure closed and
secured from entry and the elements or to obtain the required permit in the
specified time shall constitute permission to a Code Official, Code Enforcement
Officer, employee, or other authorized agent of the city to enter upon the
property to remedy the situation and to abate the nuisance which may include
abatement by demolition and removal of the problem structure.
   (C)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
property maintenance code, whenever, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Officer, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Enforcement
Officer may order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of
openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal
procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other
action to be taken as the enforcement officer deems necessary to meet such
emergency.
   (D)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the
authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and
places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit same from being utilized.
   (E)   Emergency repairs. For the purpose of this section, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform
the required work as expeditiously as possible within the limits of the
appropriations for the department. Cost incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (F)   Demolition general. The Code Enforcement Officer may order the owner
of any premises upon which is located any structure, which in the Officer's
judgment is dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous,
unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and
such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove
the structure; is reasonably capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair
and make safe and sanitary; or where there has been a cessation of normal
construction of any structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish
and remove such structure.
   (G)   Liability for damages to remove vehicle or other items from property.
No city official, code official, employee, servants, agents, or any department
of the city shall be liable for any loss or damage to the junked motor vehicle,
junked appliances, rubbish, trash, or other material constituting a violation
on the property maintenance code as a result of such being removed from the
property or as a result of any subsequent sale or other disposition.
   (H)   Right of entry. A Code Enforcement Officer may enter upon public or
private property to inspect a suspected violation of the property maintenance
code when, in ordinary view, there exists reasonable evidence that a violation
exists. If the violator does not request a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board and the property is not brought into compliance, or if the Code
Enforcement Board orders the property be brought into compliance and the
violator refuses, failure to so comply shall constitute permission to a code
official, employee or other authorized agent of the city to enter upon the
property to remedy the situation and to abate the violation.
   (I)   Subchapter supplemental to other regulations.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter are supplemental and in addition
to all other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore enacted by
the city, state or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
      (2)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed cumulative of the
provisions and regulations contained in the code of ordinances of the city,
save and except that where the provisions of this subchapter and the sections
hereunder are in conflict with the provisions elsewhere in this code, then the
more restrictive provisions shall prevail.
   (J)   The provisions of chapter shall not apply to: junked, wrecked, or
inoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar scrap or salvage
materials located on the business premises of a:
      (1)   Licensed automotive recycling dealer;
      (2)   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6); or
      (3)   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11);
      (4)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (5)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-
07, passed 10-15-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-08, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.13 DEMOLITION: PERMIT REQUIRED; PERMIT FEES; DOUBLE FEE; DEMOLITION OR
ALTERATION OF COMMON OR FIRE WALL; LIABILITY INSURANCE; TIME LIMIT; STANDARDS
OR INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Demolition permit required. It shall be unlawful to demolish any
building, structure or part thereof without filing a written application for a
demolition permit with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Demolition permit fees. For the demolition of any building, structure
or part thereof, the permit fee shall be established by the City Mayor, but
shall not be less than the following:
      (1)    Twenty-five dollars ($25) for all residential or any small
commercial that is one story and less than 3,000 square feet.
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars ($25) for any private, residential accessory
structure (garages and storage sheds over 150 square feet).
      (3)   Fifty dollars ($50) for any commercial and industrial structures
and all others exceeding 3,000 square feet.
   (C)   Double fee. Where work for which a permit is required by this
subchapter is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining the required permit,
the fees herein specified shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee
shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of
this division in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties
prescribed herein.
   (D)   Demolition or alteration of common or fire wall. When demolition of
any structure involves alterations to a common, party wall or a fire wall or
fire separation wall, the owner or contractor is (1) required to submit
detailed plans to the building official detailing scope of work to correct any
defects in the remaining wall(s) and (2) post a bond with the City Clerk in an
amount not less than $20,000 to insure proper completion of the exposed,
remaining wall to building code standards.
   (E)   Liability insurance. Proof of liability insurance is required to be
submitted to the City Clerk by the contractor prior to issuance of demolition
permit for protection of adjoining properties and public right-of-way
improvements.
   (F)   Time limit. The Code Enforcement Officer or Code Official may impose a
time limit as an additional condition of a permit for completion of demolition
work once such work shall have commenced, provided that for cause one or more
extensions of time, for periods not exceeding 30 days each, may be allowed in
writing by the Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to demolition:
      (1)   Demolition work, having commenced, shall be pursued diligently and
without unreasonable interruption with due regard to safety. It is the intent
of this section to limit the existence of an unsafe condition or nuisance on
the premises during the period of demolition operations.
      (2)   Any surface holes or irregularities, wells, septic tanks,
basements, cellars, sidewalk vaults, or coal chutes remaining after demolition
of any building or structure shall be filled with material as approved by the
enforcement officer, and shall be graded in such manner that will provide
effective surface drainage. Any surface irregularities resulting from the
demolition process shall be leveled to match surround grade.
      (3)   All debris and accumulation of material resulting from demolition
of any building or structure shall be removed from all premises.
      (4)   All building sewers shall be effectively plugged at the property
line as may be required.
   (H)   Inspections. The Code Enforcement Officer shall make the following
inspections
upon notification from the permit holder or his or her agent:
      (1)   Initial inspection is to be made after all utilities connections
have been disconnected and secured in such manner that no unsafe or unsanitary
conditions shall exist during or remain after demolition operations.
      (2)   Final inspection is to be made after all demolition work is
complete,
   (I)   Owner and contractor responsible. The provisions of this section may
be enforced against either the owner or any person or contractor performing the
work or both.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.14 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to this chapter if
a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation
or investigation, that a person or owner has violated a city ordinance, he or
she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   In the event a property owner files a written notice appealing the
issuance of a violation or citation within the time provided by this
subchapter, a copy of the citation or violation and a copy of the appeal shall
be delivered to the Code Enforcement Board.
   (F)   (1)   The person or owner to whom the citation is issued shall respond
to the citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person or owner fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person
or owner shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person or owner shall be deemed to have waived the right to
appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.15 LIENS.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, nonappealable final order as defined herein, or by a final judgment of
the court, to have committed a violation of a local government ordinance. The
lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the local government in connection with the
enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs, reasonable attorney
fees and court costs. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes; and shall continue for ten years
following the date of the nonappealable final order, or final judgment of the
court; and may be enforced by judicial proceedings, including an action to
foreclose.
   (C)   In addition, to the remedies described hereinabove, the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the City of Dawson Springs in
connection with the enforcement of this chapter. The City of Dawson Springs may
bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.16 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The City of Dawson Springs shall obtain and maintain priority over
previously filed liens in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive notification of final orders entered
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and
update the required contact information with the city.
   (D)   Once per month the city shall send notification of all final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of notification to each
party registered pursuant to this section.
   (E)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
   (F)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to this section
may, within 30 days from the date of issuance of notification:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of this chapter,
including abatement costs.
   (G)   Notwithstanding this section, nothing shall prohibit the city from
taking immediate action if necessary under provisions of the code enforcement
ordinances.
   (H)   The lien provided by §
99.15 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
99.15 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with this section.
   (I)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under this section shall, if the final order remains partially unsatisfied,
continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (J)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (F) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk's Office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (K)   Failure of the city to comply with this section of this chapter, or
failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in
this Section, shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the city has
against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-16-2023)
VEGETATION
§ 99.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited and the “Tree Ordinance of
the City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky.”
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Trees that may be expected to attain a mature height of 40 feet
or more.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees that may be expected to attain a mature height of 25 to
40 feet.
   PERSON. Any person, corporation, partnership, company, contracting firm, or
other association, organization or entity, including vendors or other service
providers under contract with the city.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dangerous, diseased or dead tree, shrub, or portions
thereof, located on public right-of-way or on private property adjoining
thereto. Which unreasonably interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous
for use by pedestrian or vehicular traffic, any public property, street, or
sidewalk thereon.
   REASONABLE. Acting in an ordinarily prudent manner with due regard for the
health, safety, and well-being of people who use city property, streets,
sidewalks, and other public right-of-way areas.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Real property owned by, or dedicated to the city for public
use, such as streets, medians, sidewalks, pedestrian/bikeways, utility
facilities or driveways constructed thereon.
   SHRUB. A woody plant or bush that is not tree-like in habit and produces
multiple branches or shoots from near the base.
   SMALL TREES. Trees that may be expected to attain a mature height of 25 feet
or less.
   STREET LAWN. Where sidewalks are present, this shall be the area between the
sidewalk and back of a publically maintained street curb or edge of publically
maintained pavement. When sidewalks are not present, the area from the property
line to the back edge of a publically maintained street curb or publically
maintained pavement.
   TREE. Any self-supporting woody plant which has a well-defined stem(s) or a
seedling or sapling thereof, planted with the intent to allow the plant to grow
to maturity.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.27 TREE AND SHRUB PLANTING; RESTRICTIONS; APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Permission required for trees and shrubs planted on public right-of-
way. Any person may plant a tree or shrub within unimproved public right-of-
way, a median, or street lawn that is immediately adjacent to his or her
property, upon obtaining written permission from the city and provided that the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The applicant must apply for permission at least ten working days
prior to actual planting.
      (2)   A representative of the city shall conduct an on-site visit and
approve tree/shrub species and location of proposed planting.
      (3)   Applicant must locate all underground utilities prior to the on-
site visit.
      (4)   The applicant shall acknowledge his other responsibility for the
reasonable maintenance of all permitted trees and/or shrubs after they are
planted, which shall constitute a binding, real covenant between applicant,
applicant's successors in interest, and the city.
      (5)   Trees planted in the street lawn shall meet the following minimum
linear spacing requirements:
         (a)   Forty feet between large trees.
         (b)   Thirty feet between medium trees.
         (c)   Twenty feet between small trees.
      (6)   The minimum width of a street lawn planting area shall be five feet
for small trees, eight feet for medium trees, and ten feet for large trees. The
tree shall be centered in these areas. Due consideration shall be given for
future right-of-way improvements (e.g., street widening sidewalks, etc.)
      (7)   No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to the nearest
fireplug or utility pole.
      (8)   No tree shall be planted within 30 feet of the nearest end of the
street curb radius where traffic control devices are present.
      (9)   Only small trees shall be planted under or within 15 lateral feet
of overhead utility wires.
      (10)   No shrub shall be planted in such manner as to interfere with
necessary access to any public utility or traffic control device or mailbox.
   (B)   Tree removal and maintenance; restrictions in downtown core area:
appeals.
      (1)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, carve,
poison by use of any gaseous liquid, herbicide, or other toxic substance
harmful to trees, transplant, temporarily or permanently attach any signs,
boards, or other items excluding tree support devices, or damage any trees or
shrubs located on city property, any street lawn, or other public right-of-way.
      (2)   Excavation in public right-of-way. Any excavation in the public
right-of-way, street lawn, or other city owned or controlled property is
subject to these provisions and other provisions of the municipal code.
      (3)   Tree removal by city. The city shall assume responsibility for
removal of a tree in the right-of-way only in one or more of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   A tree is dead or severely damaged;
         (b)   A tree is damaging or potentially damaging infrastructure;
         (c)   A tree must be removed because of a city-related construction
project;
         (d)   A tree is causing an unacceptable safety risk.
      (4)   Removal of tree stump. The adjoining property owners(s) may remove
a tree and stump at their expense when the tree does not qualify for removal by
the city.
      (5)   When city authorized to prune trees. The city is authorized to
prune trees growing on private property that in the judgment of the city's
agent, present an unacceptable safety risk to vehicular or pedestrian traffic
in the right-of-way, or may order the pruning or removal of any permitted trees
or shrubs from any publicly owned or dedicated right-of-way when same are
determined to be a public nuisance as defined herein of the municipal code. No
provision herein shall restrict the right of any public utility, with prior
approval of the city, to prune or remove any tree or shrub on public right-of-
way, to allow for the reasonable use and maintenance of their respective
facilities.
      (6)   Downtown core area.
         (a)   Trees located in downtown core area. No trees or shrubs shall be
planted, pruned, or removed by any person other than the city, its licensed
agent or contractor, on or from city property or right-of-way within the
downtown core area.
         (b)   Decorations. No trees or shrubs located on city owned property
or public right-of-way within the downtown core area shall be decorated in any
manner by any person other than the city, its licensed agents, contractors, or
other authorized persons, in connection with any festival, holiday, or other
community event, without the prior written approval of the city.
      (7)   Denial of permit by city. The city reserves the right to deny the
issuance of any permit authorized herein under circumstances that are harmful
to the health, safety, welfare, and/or interest of the public.
      (8)   Appeal.
         (a)    Any applicant for a permit required by this section, or any
property owner in the downtown core are adversely affected by the decision of
the city in the application or interpretation of any of the provisions in this
section, may appeal said decision to the city. The appeal provided herein shall
be perfected by filing written notice thereof with the City Clerk within ten
days after notification of the decision on an application for a permit. The
notice of appeal required herein shall set forth the reasons why the appeal is
being taken and what relief is sought. The appeal shall be heard by the Code
Enforcement Board within 20 days after the filing of the notice of appeal. The
appellant shall be notified of the date, time, and location of the hearing, and
for good cause only, may be granted a continuation of the hearing to a mutually
convenient date and time.
         (b)   The hearing on the appeal shall be conducted under rules
uniformly applicable to both the appellant and the city. Both the applicant and
the city shall have the right to make statements, offer and examine witnesses,
and present evidence in support of their respective positions, cross examine
witnesses, and submit any other information relevant to the adjudication of an
appeal. At the conclusion of the hearing on the appeal, or within ten days
thereafter, the Code Enforcement Board shall issue a written decision
containing findings of fact based upon the evidence produced at the hearing and
shall notify the affected parties, in writing, of its decision. Any appeal of
the decision shall be filed in writing with the Hopkins District Court no later
than 30 days following the issuance of the decision of the Code Enforcement
Board.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 99.28 MAINTENANCE OF TREES, SHRUBS, AND STREET LAWNS; VIOLATION.
   (A)   Responsibility of adjoining property owners. All trees and/or shrubs
for which a permission has been granted under §
99.27 above shall be reasonably maintained by the person in which permission
was so granted or current owner of the property adjoining the street lawn or
public right-of-way on which the tree or shrub is located. Adjacent property
owners may perform minor routine maintenance on all other non-permitted trees
and shrubs located within the street lawn or other public right-of-way.
Maintenance shall include, but is not limited to, pinning, removal of dead or
diseased limbs, and/or insect control. Adjoining property owners shall prune
permitted trees and shrubs to improve visibility of traffic control devices,
comply with sight visibility requirements, and provide sufficient overhead
clearance of vehicular and pedestrian traffic on adjoining streets and
sidewalks. Adjoining property owners shall also maintain and repair, if
necessary, any abutting public street or sidewalk, or other public right-of-way
damaged by the root system, trunk, or limb of a privately owned tree, at the
property owner's expense.
   (B)   Interference with, damage to public streets, sidewalks and the like;
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for a property owner, resident, tenant,
occupant, or persons having control or management of any property, house,
building, or lot to permit any trees or shrubs, including trees or shrubs
located on private property or permitted within street lawns, to grow in a
manner which interferes with or damages public streets or sidewalks located on
adjacent public right-of-way or interferes with sheet traffic, visibility of
traffic control devices, violates sight visibility requirements at
intersections, or which obstructs the passage of adjoining right-of-way, or
otherwise creates an imminent risk of injury or damage to vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Violation of property maintenance code unlawful. It shall be unlawful
for a property owner, resident, tenant, occupant, or persons having control or
management of any property, rental property, house, building, or lot to permit
the street lawn to be in violation of the property maintenance code.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.29 PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   The commission of any act, or omitting to perform any duty, or suffering or
permitting any condition or thing in violation of any provision of this
division shall constitute a public nuisance, which the city may proceed to
abate in accordance with the city municipal code.
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any persons violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
following schedule of civil penalties in addition to any fees, charges, costs,
or other amounts authorized therein.
   (A)   Citations issued by the Code Enforcement Officer for any violation of
§§
99.01 through
99.13 that are not contested or which are upheld by the Code Enforcement Board
or any court of proper jurisdiction, shall be subject to the following schedule
of civil penalties for each violation. However, the Code Enforcement Board may
waive any or all of the penalty if it determines that such waiver will promote
compliance with the property maintenance code.
   (B)   Table of fines:
 
Violation (Uncontested)  1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd + Offense
Property maintenance and
nuisance-structural      $100        $200        $400
violations
Property maintenance and
nuisance-non-structural  $ 75        $150        $300
violations
Other violations         $100        $200        $400
                         A daily civil penalty not to exceed $100 per day per
                         property may be imposed by the Code Enforcement Board
                         after a hearing and a finding upholding a citation and
Daily civil penalty      where the violation has not been corrected. The Code
                         Enforcement Officer is permitted to petition the Code
                         Enforcement Board for a hearing to request the
                         imposition of a daily fine for any violation.
 
(Ord. 92A, passed 8-19-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
      
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
115.   CABLE REGULATIONS
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Use of fees; purpose of chapter
   
110.03   License required; application
   
110.04   Imposition of license fees; exception
   
110.05   Computation of percentage of work done in the city
   
110.06   Subject business entities; business allocation percentage formula
   
110.07   Other subject activities
   
110.08   Filing of estimated return and payment of license fee
   
110.09   Records to be kept
   
110.10   Investigative powers of City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
   
110.11   Enforcement by City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
   
110.12   Collection of underpayment; refund of overpayment
   
110.13   Confidentiality of information
   
110.14   Interest and penalties
   
110.15   Schedule of special regulatory fees
   
110.16   Conditions and standards for the issuance, suspension and revocation
of business and professional licenses
   
110.17   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. A synonym for OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION or OTHER ACTIVITY and
shall mean an enterprise, activity or undertaking of any nature conducted for
gain or profit, or conducted by an individual, co-partnership, association or
any other entity, but shall not include the usual activities of boards of
trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations or unions (or other
associations performing the services usually performed by trade associations or
unions), Community Chest funds or foundations, corporations or associations
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific,
literary, educational or civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to
children or animals, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively
for social, literary, educational or fraternal purposes, where no part of the
earnings or income or receipts for such units, groups or associations inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   CITY CLERK/TREASURER/TAX COLLECTOR. The City Clerk/Treasurer of Dawson
Springs.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky or any other state, territory,
foreign country or dependency.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee under
this chapter.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of each and every business or
enterprise at a single location after provision for all costs and expenses
incurred in the conduct thereof shall be the same as reported for federal
income tax purposes, excluding items exempted under this chapter. Forms O1-100
and O1-101 are hereby approved and made a part of this chapter.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION or OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind of
work or the rendering of any kind of personal service, further defined at
BUSINESS above.
   PERSON. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to a partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the
officers and directors thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.02 USE OF FEES; PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   All moneys derived from license fees under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector and placed to
the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the city and shall be expended and
used for:
      (1)   Defraying the current, general and incidental expenses of the city;
      (2)   For capital improvement; and
      (3)   For the construction and reconstruction of streets, alleys, curbs
and sidewalks, as authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue for the General
Revenue Fund of the city, and it is not the intention of the city or of this
chapter to impose and require an occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
    Any person, firm, corporation or association desiring to enter into any
trade, occupation or profession within the city shall apply in writing to the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector. Any such application must have the approval
of the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector before a license is issued. The City
Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector responsible for issuing a business license shall
have the right to reasonably inquire of the applicant the nature of the
business to be conducted in order to determine its potential impact upon any
adjoining or nearby property. As a condition of issuing the business license,
the city shall have the right to require the applicant to take reasonable steps
to minimize or prevent any potential negative impact of the business on any
adjoining or nearby property. The application shall be approved or denied
within five days of receipt of the application. In the event the application is
denied, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial to the City
Council which shall conduct a hearing thereon within 30 days of the denial. In
the event the applicant misrepresents to the city the nature of the business to
be conducted, the city shall have the right to revoke or suspend the business
license.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-21-2023)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   There is levied and imposed an annual license fee which shall be
imposed at the rate of 1.5% of net profits up to and including $20,000, and at
the rate of 1% of that part of net profits exceeding $20,000 (up to a maximum
license fee of $500) for all businesses, professions or occupations from
activities conducted in the city.
   (B)   Where such net profits are earned for work done or services performed
or rendered both within and without the city, the license fees shall be
measured by such part of the net profits as is earned as a result of work done
or services performed or rendered in the city. The license fees shall be
computed by obtaining the percentage which the net profits for work performed
or services rendered within the city bears to the total net profits earned.
   (C)   Each person, association, corporation or other entity engaged in any
occupation, trade, profession or other activity in the city (other than certain
businesses, occupations, vehicles and devices defined in §
110.15 of this chapter) shall pay a minimum license fee of $50 to the city,
payable in advance, at the time the estimated net profits return described in §
110.08 of this chapter is filed, for each fiscal year (or fraction thereof in
the case of a new business). The fiscal year is to be for the period commencing
on May 11 of each year and ending May 10 of each succeeding year. The minimum
fee of $50 shall be a credit on the license fee as otherwise provided in this
chapter only for the fiscal year which the minimum fee covers and shall not be
a credit for any subsequent year. The maximum license fee under this chapter
for each occupation, trade or profession shall be $500 per year; except that,
the license fee shall be set at a flat rate of $1,000 for any manufacturing
company that employs 50 or more persons. Any manufacturing company with less
than 50 employees shall be subject to the standard net profits license fee as
set out above.
   (D)   In the event any person, firm or corporation desires to engage in any
business, profession or trade after November 11 of each year, he or she shall
pay the license fee at one-half the yearly minimum. The net profits return
shall be based on a minimum of $2,500 and a maximum of $10,000 for the period
covered by this half-year license fee or one-half the amount of the set license
fee as set out in this chapter.
   (E)   No license fee under this chapter shall be required of domestic
servants employed in private homes.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969; Ord. passed 11-16-1970;
Ord. passed 5-16-1978)
§ 110.05 COMPUTATION OF PERCENTAGE OF WORK DONE IN THE CITY.
   (A)   The net profits of businesses and professions from activities
conducted in the city shall be computed by multiplying the entire net profit
from all sources by a business allocation percentage to be determined by:
      (1)   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the
licensee from sales or services rendered within the city bears to the total
gross receipts from sales or services rendered wherever made;
      (2)   Ascertaining the percentage which the wages, salaries and other
personal service compensation period covered by the report of services
performed or rendered within the city bears to the total wages, salaries and
personal service compensation for such period of all the licensee’s employees
within and without the city; and
      (3)   Adding together the percentage determined in accordance with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above and dividing the total so obtained by two.
   (B)   SALES WITHIN THE CITY, as used in this section, shall be sales of
merchandise to or services performed within the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.06 SUBJECT BUSINESS ENTITIES; BUSINESS ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE FORMULA.
   (A)   Subject business entities.
      (1)   A business entity which has a branch or branches, office or
offices, store or stores, warehouse or other place or places in which the
entity’s business is transacted, located in the city shall be considered to be
conducting, operating or carrying on a trade, business, profession, enterprise,
undertaking or other activity to the full extent of the sum total of all
transactions originating or consummated in, by or through the city branch,
office, store, warehouse or other place of business, including: billings made
on such transactions; services rendered; shipments made; goods, chattels,
merchandise and the like, sold; or commissions, fees or other remuneration or
payments earned as determined by division (A)(3) below.
      (2)   In the case of a partnership, association, or other unincorporated
business owned by one or more persons, the license fee, generally, shall be
upon the partnership, association or business enterprise as an entity and not
ordinarily upon the partners or members thereof.
      (3)   In determining the proportion or amount of the subject net profits
of a business entity doing business within the city, the business entity shall
use and apply the business allocation percentage formula set forth in §
110.05 of this chapter. For explanation of the formula, see division (B) below.
   (B)   Business allocation percentage.
      (1)   The licensee shall use the formula set forth in §
110.05 of this chapter to compute the percentage of his or her entire net
profits (derived from activities both within and outside the city) which is
subject under this chapter, and to determine the license fee payable to the
city.
         (a)   Factors. If the licensee was doing business in the city during
such period, business allocation percentage shall be computed on the basis of
the two following factors:
            1.   Business receipts within and without the city; and
            2.   Payrolls within and without the city.
         (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B)(1), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
            BUSINESS RECEIPTS. The sum total of gross receipts from sales plus
gross credit or charges for work done and performed or services rendered.
            PAYROLLS. The total wages, salaries and other personal service
compensation.
         (c)   Computation. The business allocation percentage is computed by
determining the percentages which city business receipts (see division (B)(4)
below) bear to the licensee’s entire business receipts wheresoever derived
(including those derived from the city); and which payrolls paid by the
licensee in the city bear to the licensee’s entire payroll wherever paid
(including in city payrolls), adding together the two percentages so arrived
at, and dividing the total by two. However, if one of the factors (receipts or
payrolls) is missing, the remaining percentage is the business allocation
percentage. A factor is not to be deemed missing merely because the
expenditures of the licensee for payrolls or the gross receipts of the
licensee, are found to be situated, incurred or received entirely within or
entirely without the city.
      (2)   After determining such business allocation percentage, the license
fee shall be determined by applying that percentage to the entire net profits
of the licensee wherever derived, (thus arriving at the subject net profit),
and computing that percent of the resultant subject net profit as is set forth
in §
110.04(A) of this chapter.
      (3)   In case it shall appear to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
that any agreement, understanding or arrangement exists between the licensee
and any other person, firm or corporation whereby the activity, business,
income or capital of the licensee is improperly or inaccurately reflected, the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector may adjust items of income, deductions and
capital, in computing any allocation percentage; provided, any income directly
traceable thereto is also excluded from entire net income, so as equitable to
determine the license fee.
      (4)   The percentage of the licensee’s business receipts within the city
is determined by ascertaining the licensee’s business receipts within the city
during the period covered by the report and dividing the sum of such business
receipts by the licensee’s total business receipts within and without the city
during that period. Receipts from the following are allocable to the city:
         (a)   Sales of the licensee’s tangible personal property sold to the
buyer within the corporate limits of the city;
         (b)   Work done and performed or services rendered in the city;
         (c)   Rentals from property situated in the city where the rental of
such property is a business activity; and
         (d)   All other business receipts earned in the city. All receipts of
the period covered by the report (computed on the cash or accrual basis, in
accordance with the method of accounting used in the computation of the
licensee’s entire net income) must be taken into account.
   (C)   Compensation allocable to the city.
      (1)   The term COMPENSATION, as used in this section, may include not
only payments in cash or property, but the gross credits to or charges by the
licensee, under its normal and usual accounting practices. For example, a
plant, factory or other establishment in the city, which processes material or
manufactures parts for other plants or factories owned by the licensee, and
which may receive credit for the performance of such service only by
bookkeeping entries, may be chargeable under this section with the gross amount
of such entries in applying the formula discussed hereunder. Furthermore, such
bookkeeping entries may be considered in lieu of cash or property payment in
determining the net profits of any licensee under this chapter even though the
business allocation percentage formula may not be used by or be applicable to
the licensee; provided, however, that, whenever such gross credits or charges
are included in computing the net profits of any licensee who or which pays a
license fee thereon under this chapter, the same licensee shall not be twice
subject in the same fee period by the separate imposition of a fee upon such
gross credits or charges.
      (2)   Compensation and other receipts from work done or services
performed within the city are allocable to the city and subject under this
chapter. All amounts so received, credited or charged by the licensee in
payment for such work or services are so allocable, irrespective of whether
done or performed by employees or agents of the licensee, by subcontractors or
by any other person. It is immaterial where such amounts were payable or where
they were received.
      (3)   Commissions or fees received by the licensee are allocated to the
city if the services for which the commissions were paid were performed in the
city. If the licensee’s services for which the commissions or fees were paid
were performed for the licensee by salespersons or other agents or employees
attached to or working out of a place of business of the licensee within the
city, the licensee’s services will be deemed to have been performed in the
city.
      (4)   Where a lump sum is received by the licensee in payment for
services within and without the city, the amount attributable to services
within the city is to be determined on the basis of the relative values of, or
amounts of time spent in the performance of, such services within and without
the city, or by some other reasonable method approved by the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector. Full details must be submitted with the licensee’s
report.
   (D)   Other business receipts.
      (1)   All business receipts earned by the city licensee within the city
are allocable to the city. However, business receipts are not considered to
have been earned by the licensee in the city solely by reason of the fact that
they were payable in or actually received in the city.
      (2)   Receipts for sales of capital assets (property not held by the
licensee for sale to customers in the regular course of business) are not
business receipts. Receipts from the sale of real property held by the licensee
as a dealer for sale to customers in the regular course of business are
business receipts and are allocable to the city if the real property was
situated in the city. Receipts from sales of intangibles included in business
capital, held by the licensee as a dealer for sale to customers in the regular
course of business, are business receipts and are allocable to the city if the
sales were made in the city through a regular place of business of the licensee
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.07 OTHER SUBJECT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Income received from real estate. The income received from the
operation of real estate by persons, trust companies and real estate agents,
for or on behalf of persons or estates are subject to the license fee imposed
by this chapter, where such operation falls within the classes herein
described.
      (1)   Warehouse, apartment, hotels and similar structures. The operation
of these types of buildings constitutes a subject activity and the income
thereof is subject to the fee imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   Apartment houses, single dwellings and other rental property. As to
this type of real estate, the income derived therefrom is considered subject
when the operation thereof is so extended as to constitute an “activity” within
the meaning of this chapter, and if such “activity” requires at least 20% of a
person’s activity time, then he or she will be presumed to be engaged in the
real estate business. To the extent that a person is engaged in managing real
estate for at least 20% of his or her activity time, he or she is engaged in
the real estate business. This does not preclude an inquiry into each
particular case, if necessary.
      (3)   All corporations engaged in the rental of real estate or
partnerships organized for that purpose shall be considered to be engaged in a
subject activity.
      (4)   When any property falls within the classifications above given, the
manner of its acquisition, such as purchase, gift, inheritance, fiduciary or as
fiduciary mortgages in possession, and the like, does not affect the
subjectability of the income derived therefrom.
      (5)   Where the property is located within the city limits, the residence
of the beneficiary is immaterial.
   (B)   Trusts. Whenever a trust estate is engaged in an enterprise, activity
or business which is productive of income, the income shall be considered
subject to the license fee.
   (C)   Trading in securities. Where a person engages in the buying and
selling of stocks, bonds and other types of securities, and such transactions
are not isolated and few, but are extensive so as to constitute an activity,
the net profits therefrom are subject to the license fee.
   (D)   Fiduciaries.
      (1)   A fiduciary is a person who holds in trust property, moneys or
properties, to which another has a beneficial title or interest, or who
receives and controls income for another person or persons.
      (2)   Money received by a fiduciary is subject income, where a fiduciary
is regularly engaged in a business or profession as a fiduciary or is engaged
in a business or profession commonly regarded as being incidental or collateral
thereto, for example, an attorney-at-law, real estate agent or the like. If
such commissions or fees represent a substantial portion of the earnings or
income of the fiduciary, or when the administration of the trust requires a
substantial portion of the fiduciary’s available working time, the income
received by such persons is subject to this license fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.08 FILING OF ESTIMATED RETURN AND PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Each person subject to a license fee imposed by this chapter shall on
or before May 11 of each year, make and file with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector an estimated return in duplicate, on a form furnished by or
obtainable from the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector setting forth the
aggregate amount of estimated net profits to be earned during the ensuing
fiscal year.
   (B)   The licensee in filing the return showing the estimated net profits
for the ensuing year may use as estimated net profits that declaration of net
profits which is shown on Schedule C of his or her federal income tax return
for the occupation, trade or profession for the immediately preceding calendar
year.
      (1)   Where the licensee is required under this chapter to file an
estimated return of net profits for more than one occupation, trade or
profession in which he or she is engaged, then the declaration of net profits
shown on the Schedule C for each occupation, trade or profession for the
preceding calendar year shall be sufficient to support his or her estimated
return for the ensuing year.
      (2)   If, for any reason, any Schedule C for the preceding calendar year
does not adequately reflect proper supporting evidence concerning the
occupation, trade or profession with which it deals for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing May 11, or if the licensee chooses to use evidence other than
Schedule C, the licensee shall be permitted to rely upon, and submit to the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, if requested, similar or more accurate
supporting figures.
   (C)   At the time of the filing of the estimated return for the ensuing
year, the licensee shall pay in advance the estimated license fee for the
ensuing year, which fee as set forth in §
110.04 of this chapter shall be no less than $50 per year, nor more than $500
per year, except for those businesses, occupations, vehicles and devices,
defined in §
110.15 of this chapter, which are exempted from said limits.
   (D)   Within 30 days after the close of each fiscal year, the licensee
shall, on a form furnished by or obtainable from the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector, file an accurate declaration of the net profits for his or her
business, profession or occupation, and at that time, pay the difference if
any, between that amount paid with his or her estimated return which was filed
the preceding year or, in the alternative, he or she may claim a refund, if one
is due, and the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector shall forthwith process and
pay the refund as soon as possible and within 30 days thereafter, unless the
licensee in writing directs the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector to credit
the refund on future license fees or other payments due the city under this
chapter or any other ordinance. Pursuant to the maximum license fee in §
110.04 of this chapter if the licensee does not desire or choose to disclose
his or her net profits under the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall be
deemed to have complied with all of the provisions of this section by filing an
estimated return on or before May 11 of each year, showing his or her estimated
tax to be $500, signing the estimated tax return, and paying the maximum
license fee of $500. No further final return shall be required, unless he or
she elects to file a final return after the close of the fiscal year for the
purpose of claiming a refund.
   (E)   It is the intent of this chapter that any license fee paid during any
calendar or fiscal year is for the right to do business in that calendar or
fiscal year.
   (F)   Upon the recommendation of the Mayor and subject to the approval of
the City Council, the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, after having received
such approval by the Council, shall have the authority to extend the time for
the filing of the returns in individual cases. Such extension shall be upon the
written request of the licensee. All sums shown by the final return, when
filed, to have been due at the end of the fiscal year, shall bear interest at
the rate of 6% per annum from May 11 until paid.
   (G)   Where a part of a business is situated in one or more other locations
apart from the principal place of business but the same is an integral part of
the principal place of business, the licensee shall be required by this chapter
to file a single return, as herein provided, if he or she files with the City
Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector an affidavit setting out facts sufficient to
prove to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector that the separate locations are
in fact an integral part of the principal place of business.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969; Ord. passed 5-16-1978)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Records of collection. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector to collect and to receive the license fees imposed by
this chapter, and the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector shall keep records
showing the amount received by him or her from each licensee and the date of
such receipt.
   (B)   Records to be kept by licensees. Licensees subject to the license fee
under this chapter are required to keep such records as will enable the filing
of true and accurate returns of net profits, and such records are to be
preserved to enable the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, or any agent or
employee of the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, to verify the correctness
of the return filed.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF CITY CLERK/TREASURER/TAX COLLECTOR.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or any agent or employee designated
by him or her is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of
any licensee of any net profits or return made, or if no return was made to
ascertain the amount of license fee due under the terms of this chapter by such
examinations. Each such licensee or supposed licensee shall give to the City
Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or to his or her duly authorized agent or
employee the means, facilities and opportunity for the making of such
examination and investigation. The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector is hereby
authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any net profits which
were or should have been shown in a return and, to this end, he or she may
compel the production of books, papers, records and the attendance of all
persons before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he or she
believes to have knowledge of such net profits, to the extent that any officer
empowered to administer oaths in the commonwealth is permitted to cause such
coercion.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.11 ENFORCEMENT BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER/TAX COLLECTOR.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, acting under the direction of the
Mayor, is hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, and under the direction of the Mayor and subject to the approval of
the City Council, is hereby empowered to promulgate regulations relating to any
matter or thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, provisions for the
reexamination and correction of returns as to which an overpayment or
underpayment is claimed or found to have been made, and the regulations so
promulgated shall be binding upon all licensees.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.12 COLLECTION OF UNDERPAYMENT; REFUND OF OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If as a result of investigation conducted by the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Tax Collector a return is found to be incorrect, the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector is authorized to assess and collect any underpayment of the license
fee with respect to net profits. If no return has been filed and a license fee
is found to be owing, the fee actually owing may be assessed and collected with
or without the formality of obtaining a delinquent return from the licensee.
   (B)   Should it be disclosed either as a result of an investigation by the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or through the medium of the filing of a
claim or petition for refund or credit, that overpayment has been made, the
city will refund such payment.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.13 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   Any information gained by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or any
other official or agent or employee of the city as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by this
chapter shall be confidential, except for official purposes and except in
accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law. The
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector may disclose to the State Commissioner of
Revenue or his or her duly authorized agent all such information and right to
inspect any of the books and records of the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
if the State Commissioner of Revenue grants to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records
of the State Department of Revenue, and maintains the privileged character of
the information as furnished to him or her. The city may publish statistics
based on such information.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.14 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter which remain unpaid after they
become due shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum and any person who
has failed to pay such license fees when the same become due shall also be
charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of such unpaid license fees. Any person
who fails or refuses to pay license fees to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector at the time it is due as provided under the terms of §
110.08 of this chapter shall become liable to the city for such fees, as well
as for the interest thereon at the rate of 6% per annum, and for the aforesaid
penalty.
(Prior Code, § 110.14) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.15 SCHEDULE OF SPECIAL REGULATORY FEES.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the following occupations are of such a
nature as to require special regulation and supervision and, therefore, the
following flat annual license fees are imposed on every person, corporation,
association or the like, engaged in the business, occupation, calling or
profession, or using, holding or exhibiting articles named in this section who
shall pay in advance to the city for each calendar year (or fraction thereof in
the case of a new business) the license fee or fees herein set forth. Where
fees are set forth in the following table for a period less than one year, the
same shall be considered as the fee due for the period set forth in the table
and shall be paid in advance of engaging in the activity.
   (B)   Under the column head “Fee and Due Date” in the following table the
words, “Before Showing” shall mean that the license fee per showing is due
prior to the date of each showing. Where the word “Yearly” appears under the
column head, the same shall mean that the fee shall be due on or before May 11
of each year.
   (C)   In no event shall any fee set forth under this section, or under §
110.04 of this chapter, be reduced for the reason that the business or activity
covering same shall have been commenced subsequent to May 11 of the fiscal
year.
   (D)   Upon the payment of the flat license fee provided for in this section,
no estimated net profits return or final net profits return shall be required,
the provisions of §§
110.04 and
110.08 of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding.
   (E)   Schedule.
Occupation Fee and Due Date
Occupation                                                                          Fee and
                                                                                    Due Date
Building contractors
   Where gross contracts total $100,000 or less                                  $100
                                                                                    yearly
   Where gross contracts total over $100,000                                     $200
                                                                                    yearly
Building sub-contractors
   Where gross contracts total $100,000 or less                                  $100
                                                                                    yearly
   Where gross contracts total over $100,000                                     $200
                                                                                    yearly
Cabinet builders                                                                    $35
                                                                                    yearly
Carnivals, regardless of local sponsorship before showing                           $100 per
                                                                                    week
Carpenters                                                                          $35
                                                                                    yearly
Circuses, regardless of local sponsorship before showing                            $75 per
                                                                                    week
                                                                                    12 free
                                                                                    copies of
City directory                                                                      City
                                                                                    Directory
                                                                                    and $50
                                                                                    yearly
                                                                                    $50 a
Dance halls (tax exempt to non-profit or fraternal organizations)                   dance or
                                                                                    $200
                                                                                    yearly
Door-to-door salesperson, whether itinerant or not, each salesperson                $35
                                                                                    yearly
Electrician apprentice                                                              $35
                                                                                    yearly
Electricians                                                                        $35
                                                                                    yearly
Fortune telling, clairvoyant, palmist                                               $120
                                                                                    yearly
General peddlers                                                                    $35
                                                                                    yearly
Ice cream or confection peddlers, each wagon                                        $35
                                                                                    yearly
Marina (commercial)                                                                 $75
                                                                                    yearly
Nurserymen, itinerant                                                               $55
                                                                                    yearly
Painters                                                                            $35
                                                                                    yearly
Peddlers (produce grown or produced by the peddler, exempt)                         $35
                                                                                    yearly
Pest control company                                                                $50
                                                                                    yearly
Pinball, jukebox
Every person, firm or corporation conducting or engaging in the business of
operating, renting, leasing, selling, distributing or installing any machine,
board, table or device where same is operated by the insertion of a coin, or any    $10
counter device, either coin-operated or otherwise, used for amusement or skill,     yearly
save and except those used solely for the purpose of vending chewing gum, peanuts,
candy, cigarettes or other merchandise, and about which is no element of amusement
or skill, shall pay a license fee, license shall be publicly displayed on each
machine, per year of each machine
Plumbers                                                                            $35
                                                                                    yearly
Poultry, itinerant dealers                                                          $35
                                                                                    yearly
Stocks, bonds and investment salesperson                                            $35
                                                                                    yearly
Television repairpersons                                                            $35
                                                                                    yearly
Trucks or delivery wagons
   All persons, firms, corporations or associations who are not liable for a city
license and doing business in the city and whose business requires the operation of
motor trucks, station wagons, cars or any type of motor vehicle for the purpose of
delivering merchandise, and whose motor vehicles use the streets of the city for
the foregoing purposes, shall be required to purchase a motor vehicle license for
this privilege as follows:
      Motor vehicles used in the delivery of merchandise to stores            $25
      Motor vehicles used in the delivery of merchandise to individuals or    $35
consumers when not otherwise provided
      The above schedule of prices is not intended to include the delivery of $25l
to consumers. The price of this particular license shall be
   This section shall not apply to any person, firm, corporation or association
whose motor vehicles operate under the authority of a certificate or permit issued
by the Department of Motor Transportation. However, evidence of such permit must be
prominently displayed on the vehicle
Wholesale oil company                                                               $75
                                                                                    yearly
 
(Prior Code, § 110.15) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
§ 110.16 CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR THE ISSUANCE, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION
OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Standards for issuance. An application for a business or professional
license shall be approved and the license issued by the city unless there is
tangible evidence that the conduct of the business or professional would pose a
threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare, or would
violate the law. Tangible evidence of any of the following shall constitute a
valid reason for denying the issuance of a business or professional license:
      (1)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (2)   The applicant, any owner of the business or professional has a
record of continual breaches of business contracts;
      (3)   The applicant, any owner of the business or professional has
unsatisfactory moral character;
      (4)   The applicant, any owner of the business, or professional has been
convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor for which a jail sentence could have been
imposed, or a crime involving moral turpitude; and
      (5)   The applicant, any owner of the business or professional has been
convicted of any crime or violation which directly relates to the conduct of
the business or professional for which the license is sought. In determining
whether a prior conviction directly relates to the conduct of the business or
professional for which the license is sought, the authorized city official
shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime or violation for which
the applicant, owner of the business or professional was convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime or violation to the purposes of
regulating the business or professional for which the license is sought; and
         (c)   The relationship of the crime or violation to the ability,
capacity and fitness required of the applicant or owner to perform the duties
and to discharge the responsibilities of conducting the business or
professional.
   (B)   Notice of denial. If a business or professional is denied a license
for any of the reasons set forth above, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
      (1)   The reason for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant has the right to a hearing before the City Council,
if a written request for a hearing is filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer
within ten days after the service of the notice of denial. Service of the
notice of denial may be by certified mail, return receipt requested; and
      (3)   If a business or professional is denied solely because of the prior
conviction of a crime or violation, in addition to the information specified
above, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the business or
professional license; and
         (b)   Evidence that the applicant or owner has been successfully
rehabilitated may be considered upon reapplication.
   (C)   Standards for revocation or suspension of license. Any business or
professional license issued pursuant to this chapter may, with notice to the
holder thereof and after a hearing, be revoked or suspended by the City Council
for the following reasons:
      (1)   If there shall occur in, on or at the licensed premises any
condition which constitutes a public nuisance, which otherwise endangers or is
obnoxious to the public safety, health, morals or general welfare or otherwise
violates the law of the state;
      (2)   If the license holder suffers or permits any disorderly conduct in,
on or at the licensed premises;
      (3)   If the license holder shall misrepresent any material fact
concerning the business which is necessary and proper to determine the amount
of the annual license tax due;
      (4)   If the license holder is convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor for
which a jail sentence could be imposed, or for a crime involving moral
turpitude; or
      (5)   If the license holder is convicted of any crime or violation which
directly relates to the conduct of the business or professional. In determining
whether or not a conviction directly relates to the conduct of the business,
the City Council shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime or violation for which
the license holder was convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime or violation to the purposes of
regulating the business or professional; and
         (c)   The relationship of the crime or violation to the ability,
capacity and fitness of the license holder to continue to perform the duties
and to discharge the responsibilities of conducting the business or
professional.
   (D)   Procedure for revocation and suspension of license. When there is
evidence to support a belief that a business or professional license issued
pursuant to this chapter should be suspended or revoked for any other causes
enumerated above, it shall be duty of the city to prefer charges against the
license holder. The city shall reduce the charges to writing and shall clearly
set forth each charge. The city shall file the charges with the City Council
and shall mail to the license holder, at the address shown on the license,
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the filing of the charges
with the City Council and a notice of the date, time and place of the hearing
thereon, which hearing shall be held by the City Council within ten days after
the mailing of the notice to the license holder. The evidence taken at the
hearing shall be transcribed and the decision of the City Council, whether to
revoke or suspend the license, shall be reduced to writing and recorded in the
minute books. If the Council determines that the license should be revoked or
suspended, it shall notify the license holder of the following:
      (1)   The earliest date the license holder may reapply for the business
or professional license; and
      (2)   Evidence that the license holder had successfully rehabilitated may
be considered upon reapplication, if the license is suspended or revoked
because the license holder was convicted of a crime or violation.
(Prior Code, § 110.16) (Ord. passed 2-6-1989)
§ 110.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 110.17)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to make any return
required by this chapter, or any licensee who shall fail, neglect or refuse to
pay a license fee, or any person who shall refuse to permit the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector or any agent or employee designated by him or her in
writing, to examine his or her books, records and papers, or who shall
knowingly make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return, or who shall attempt
to do anything whatever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount of net
profits in order to avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the license
fees thereon shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $25,
nor more than $500, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or shall be
subject to both fine and imprisonment for each offense. Such criminal penalties
shall be in addition to the penalties imposed under §
110.14 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person or agent divulging information in violation of §
110.13 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, or to
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. A-27, passed 3-24-1969)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupational license application required
   
111.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
111.04   Apportionment
   
111.05   Employers to withhold
   
111.06   Returns required
   
111.07   Extensions
   
111.08   Refunds
   
111.09   Federal audit provisions
   
111.10   Administrative provisions
   
111.11   Information to remain confidential
   
111.12   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a),
401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person; except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a non-resident
alien individual, foreign partnership or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31 of
the year preceding the year in which the return to the city is due (for
example, if the return is due on 4-15-2008, then the applicable Internal
Revenue Code would be the one in effect on 12-31-2007).
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in § 61 of the Internal Revenue Code
minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Ch. 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carry back or
carry forward allowed under § 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the State Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy net profits, or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit, as defined in this section.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city means net profit, as defined in this section, and
as apportioned under §
111.04 of this chapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business or any other changes, which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business entity
that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the
State Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.5%(with a
minimum of $50):
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and non-
resident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
non-resident business entity; and
      (3)   Each person, association, corporation or other business engaged in
any occupation, trade, profession or other business activity in the city shall
pay a minimum license fee of $50 payable in advance, to the city for each tax
year (or fraction thereof in the case of a new business). Said minimum fee
shall be a credit on the net profit license fee as otherwise provided in this
chapter only for the tax year which said minimum fee covers and shall not be a
credit for any subsequent year.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, or trust,
banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in the state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county and local primary, regular or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Ch. 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion of their
net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the commonwealth; and
      (7)   Net income received from the leasing or rental of less than four
residential rental units per year.
   (C)   The following occupations are of such a nature as to require special
regulation and supervision, and therefore the following minimum license fees
are imposed on every person engaged in the business, occupation, call or
profession, or using, holding or exhibiting articles named in this section who
shall pay in advance to the city for each calendar year or fiscal year, or
fraction thereof, in accordance with the yearly basis the licensee uses in
making a return under the terms of this chapter, the license fee or fees herein
set forth, which payment shall be a credit on the license fee as otherwise
provided in this chapter; however, where minimum fees are set forth in the
following table for periods less than one year, the same shall be considered
the minimum fee due for the period as set forth in such table and shall be paid
in advance of engaging in such activity.
 
Subject Fee                                    Minimum Fee    Date Due
Dance halls (any place of business help open   $50 a dance or
to the general public where patrons are        $200 yearly    Yearly
permitted to dance)
Entertainment exhibitions, ride concessions,                  Before showing or
carnivals or circuses regardless of            $35            operation
sponsorship, per day
Fortune telling                                $120           Yearly
Wholesale oil company, wholesale distilled     $100           Yearly
spirits, malt beverage distributor’s license
Trucks or delivery vehicle                     $25            Yearly
 
      (1)   All persons, firms, corporations or associations who are not liable
for a city license under the provisions of this section and doing business in
the city and whose business requires the operation of any type of motor vehicle
for the purpose of delivering merchandise, and whose motor vehicles use the
streets of the city for the foregoing purposes, shall be required to purchase a
motor vehicle license for this privilege.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any person, firm, corporation or
association whose motor vehicles operate under the authority of a certificate
or permit issued by the Department of Motor Transportation. However, evidence
of such permit must be prominently displayed on the vehicle.
   (D)   Transient-itinerant merchants or businesses.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         TEMPORARILY. Not of a permanent nature or stay or involving regular or
routine visits to the city.
         TRANSIENT-ITINERANT MERCHANT OR BUSINESS. Includes any person,
partnership, corporation or other entity not specifically provided for in this
chapter which passes through the city temporarily for the purpose of conducting
a trade, occupation, profession in general for gain or profit which involves
buying, selling or exchanging of goods or services.
      (2)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any transient-itinerant
business or representative thereof to engage in any activity in the city
without the representatives thereof having first obtained a permit to do so as
provided herein and having otherwise complied with the terms and provisions of
this section.
      (3)   Fees. Those subject to this division (D) relating to transient-
itinerant businesses shall pay to the city a fee of $50 prior to the issuance
of a permit and prior to engaging in business in the city. Said fee shall be
payable in advance and valid for the remainder of the tax year (or fraction
thereof), which tax year is to be for the period commencing on May 11, and
ending on May 10 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-
18-2024)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the F.O.B. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
111.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that, the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for or
pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by
this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
111.03 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city are responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which such compensation was paid.
   (G)   Business entities not required to remit a Form 1099 remain liable to
the city to remit equivalent information for any compensation made to persons
or business entities that are not employees.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the time the tax was due
until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A fraction of
a month is counted as an entire month.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
111.05 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division
(A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later; except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
111.09 of this chapter has been extended by an agreement between the business
entity and the city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be
extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district tax law.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such information
and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if the
Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records of the State Department
of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information so
furnished; provided, further, that, the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
111.05 of this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this division shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however,
the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
111.03 of this chapter and any fees, penalties and interest as provided in
divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) above by civil action in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it
in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 of this chapter by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not longer than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 of this chapter by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 07-08, passed 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver’s license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in division (A)(1)(b)1. or 2.
of this paragraph is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, “full description” includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than 10 days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within 10 days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed 1/5 of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Yard sales
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; and
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
(Prior Code, § 113.04)
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 113.05)
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 113.06)
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The
legislative body shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for
such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 113.07)
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 YARD SALES.
   There shall be no yard sales conducted within the city’s Downtown Business
District.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) (Ord. passed 12-21-1998)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of license fee
   
114.02   Fee for companies issuing life insurance policies
   
114.03   Fee for companies issuing insurance policies
   
114.04   Due date; interest
   
114.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
114.06   Effective date of tax; fee
   
114.07   Filing of notice
   
114.08   Request for refund
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed 10-29-1984)
§ 114.02 FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of person residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. passed 10-29-1984; Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-24-2005;
Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-15-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 91a.080(2)
§ 114.03 FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders. The license fee imposed upon a
health insurance policy shall remain at 5% and shall not apply to premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225 or to premiums received on health insurance policies issued
to individuals not to policies issued through Kentucky Access created in KRS
304.17B-005.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. passed 10-29-1984; Ord. passed 7-27-1987; Ord.
2005-01, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-15-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 91a.080(3),(10)
§ 114.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. passed 10-29-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 91a.080(8),(9)
§ 114.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. passed 10-29-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 91a.080(8)
§ 114.06 EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX; FEE.
   The City Council may change the license fee or rate of tax hereunder to be
effective July 1 of each year on prospective basis only.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-
15-2011)
§ 114.07 FILING OF NOTICE.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall file a copy of this chapter, and any
amendment thereto, to the Commissioner of Insurance at least 100 days prior to
the effective date. The Commissioner of Insurance shall promptly notify each
insurance company engaged in the business of insurance in the commonwealth that
the city has elected to impose this license fee or tax and the current amount
of this license fee or rate of tax.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-
15-2011)
§ 114.08 REQUEST FOR REFUND.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this section unless the request for
refund be made to the city in writing within 18 months of the end of the
calendar year on which said tax is paid. Additionally, said request shall be
accompanied by documentation supporting said request which shall include at
least the following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid;
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against;
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company; and
      (4)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Further, unless request for refund be made as set forth above, no set
off may be made by the company for erroneously paid premiums against future
taxes owed.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. passed 6-18-2007)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Initial review of basic cable rates
   
115.03   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
   
115.04   Cable operator information
   
115.05   Automatic rate adjustments
   
115.06   Enforcement
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
§ 115.02 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic
cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the city secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the city secretary with
the objector’s name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, the City Council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis
in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City
Council’s findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows:
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per channel rate on 9-30-1992,
reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and any
change in the number of channels occurring between 9-30-1992 and the initial
date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator’s per channel rate was below the benchmark on 9-30-1992, the
initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. The City Council will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The City Council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator’s 9-30-1992 rates, minus 10%, will prescribe the cable
operator’s new rates.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator’s proposed rates, the City Council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the City Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the City Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the City Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
City Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) or
(H) above, as applicable. In addition, the City Council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to 9-1-1993.
The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in accordance
with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council’s decision resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the City Council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in
the official newspaper of the city.
   (J)   Appeal. The City Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
§ 115.03 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of the
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following
additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that
the requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the City Secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the City Secretary with
the objector’s name and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the City Council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the City Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City Council’s findings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows.
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the City Council will review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The City Council may approve a rate increase above the
price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new
rate.
   (I)   Decision. The City Council’s decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the city secretary to record the objection or may be
submitted in writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The City Council may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The City Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The City Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the City Council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council’s decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The City Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
§ 115.04 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   City may require.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the City
Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the City Council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
division (B) shall not be considered.
   (C)   City Council action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
division (B) above, will be acted upon by the City Council. The City Council
will grant the request if the cable operator presents by a preponderance of the
evidence, a case for non-disclosure consistent with applicable federal
regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be placed in a public
file in lieu of the information withheld from public inspection. If the request
does not present a case for non-disclosure and the City Council denies the
request, the City Council shall take one of the following actions.
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the City
Council, the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the City Council denies the request for confidentiality,
the cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the City Council’s decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
§ 115.05 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PL. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PL.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or 2-28-
1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before 10-6-1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within
30 days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
§ 115.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Refunds. The city may order the cable operator to refund to
subscribers a portion of previously paid rates under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be
in excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment;
or
      (2)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the city.
   (B)   Fines. If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each
day the cable operator fails to comply.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 240.0, passed 11-4-1993)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.001   Title
   
116.002   Incorporation of state law; compliance required
   
116.003   Scope of coverage
   
116.004   Deposit of fees, fines to general funds
   
116.005   Notice to State ABC Board of fees levied
Administration
   
116.020   Office of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator established
   
116.021   Oath; bond
   
116.022   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (DSABC) to enforce
   
116.023   Functions; duties and powers
   
116.024   Administrator to have police power
   
116.025   Right of inspection
Licensing Regulations
   
116.040   Number of licenses
   
116.041   Distilled spirits and wine licenses; fees
   
116.042   Malt beverage licenses; fees
   
116.043   Restaurant wine license; fees
   
116.044   Consumption of drink on premises; license required; fees
   
116.045   Special private club license; fees
   
116.046   Malt beverage consumption on premises
   
116.047   Special Sunday sale licenses
   
116.048   License term; renewal
   
116.049   Pro-ration; refunds prohibited
   
116.050   Assignment, transfer, continuance, license replacement
   
116.051   Location of business restricted
   
116.052   Application; contents; emergency action
   
116.053   Approval or denial of application
   
116.054   Payment of fees
   
116.055   Posting of licenses; public record
   
116.056   License to become void if business dormant; license renewal
   
116.057   Causes for refusal to issue or renew license and for suspension or
revocation of license
   
116.058   License types
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
116.070   License required for sale
   
116.071   Hours of sale
   
116.072   Exceptions to mandatory closing times; requirements
   
116.073   Confiscation authorized if violations occur
   
116.074   Advertising restrictions
   
116.075   Retail sales to certain persons prohibited
   
116.076   Minors not to possess or purchase alcoholic beverages nor to
misrepresent age; use of fraudulent identification
   
116.077   Licensee to display notice regarding sales to minors
   
116.078   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Regulatory License Fee
   
116.090   Regulatory license fee imposed
   
116.091   Payment
   
116.092   Failure to pay
   
116.093   Interest on late payments
   
116.094   Adequate record keeping required
 
   
116.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance of the City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky”.
(Prior Code, § 116.001) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.002 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The provisions of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control laws
contained in KRS Ch. 241, 242, 243 and 244, pertaining to licenses and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, including
definitions contained therein, as well as amendments and supplements thereto,
are hereby adopted as part of the Alcoholic Beverage Control law of the city,
except as otherwise lawfully provided herein. As used herein, STATE means the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and CITY means the City of Dawson Springs, Kentucky.
   (B)   Any violation of state law relating to the sale, production, storing
or otherwise trafficking in alcoholic beverages shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall sell deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale,
or for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter and all state statutes and
regulations applicable thereto.
   (D)   All prohibitions, restrictions and regulations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages contained in KRS Ch. 244 shall apply to alcoholic beverage use in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 116.002) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.003 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the traffic in malt
beverages, distilled spirits and wine where the context permits such
applications. Unless the context otherwise admits or requires, the term
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES shall mean and shall include
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner,
proprietor, employee or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city
where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any state
statutes or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 116.003) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.004 DEPOSIT OF FEES, FINES TO GENERAL FUNDS.
   All monies derived from license fees or from fines as provided in this
chapter shall be paid to the treasury of the city and become a part of the
general funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 116.004) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.005 NOTICE TO STATE ABC BOARD OF FEES LEVIED.
   This chapter is and shall be subject to the provisions of KRS 243.610. The
City Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice to the State Alcoholic Beverage Board of
any fees or assessments levied under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.005) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 116.020 OFFICE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the office of the Dawson Springs Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (DSABC) is created.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 241.170, the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator (DSABC) shall be appointed by the Mayor. The City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (DSABC) shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 116.015) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.021 OATH; BOND.
   Prior to entering upon the duties of the position, the Administrator shall
take the oath prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution of the commonwealth and
he or she shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of
not less than $1,000. Any city employee under the supervision of the
Administrator shall execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the
Administrator may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 116.016) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.022 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR (DSABC) TO ENFORCE.
   The DSABC shall have the power and authority to promulgate such regulations
as may be necessary to implement and/or administer this chapter. Pursuant to
KRS 241.190, the functions of the DSABC shall be the same with respect to city
licenses and regulations as the functions of the Board with respect to state
licenses and regulations; except that, no regulation adopted by the DSABC may
be less stringent than the statutes related to alcoholic beverage control than
the regulations of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 116.017) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.023 FUNCTIONS; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The functions of the DSABC shall be the same with respect to city
licenses and regulations as is the function of the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board (“Board”) with respect to state licenses and regulations; except
that, no regulation of the DSABC shall be less stringent than the state
statutes and regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control. No regulation
of the DSABC shall become effective until it has been approved by the Board.
   (B)   The DSABC shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
suspension and revocation for cause of city licenses as the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board has with respect to state licenses under KRS 241.060.
The DSABC, on his or her own initiative, or on the complaint of any person, may
institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license issued under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.018) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.024 ADMINISTRATOR TO HAVE POLICE POWER.
   The DSABC and the DSABC’s investigators shall have the full police powers of
peace officers, and their jurisdiction shall be coextensive with the boundaries
of the city. They may inspect any premises where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining
a search warrant.
(Prior Code, § 116.019) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.025 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The DSABC shall have access at all reasonable times, for inspection, all
books and records required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150, and
shall simultaneously receive copies of all reports submitted by licensees to
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 116.020) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 116.040 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The number of retail package, retail drink, retail beer, wholesale beer
distributors and wholesale distilled spirits distributors and wholesale
distilled spirits distributors licenses issued in the city shall not exceed the
number and type as set forth in KRS Ch. 241, 242, 243 or 244 and all
administrative regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as may be amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 116.030) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.041 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE LICENSES; FEES.
   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following kinds of
distilled spirits and wine licenses upon proper application and the payment of
prescribed fee. This section shall not be construed to limit the city’s
authority under KRS 242.185(4) and §
116.044 of this chapter, or any other provision of law, to issue licenses
permitted by KRS 243.070.
 
License Type                                                  Fee
Hotel/motel/inn or restaurant retail drink license, per annum $600
Retail package license, per annum                             $600
Special temporary wine license, per month or part of a month  $50
 
(Prior Code, § 116.031) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.042 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following
kinds of malt beverage licenses upon proper application and the payment of
prescribed fee:
 
License Type                                                           Fee
Retailer’s license, per annum                                        $200
Special temporary retail malt beverage license, per month or part of a $25
month
 
   (B)   For purposes of the issuance of special temporary wine and retail malt
beverage licenses pursuant to 804 KAR 4:250 and KRS 243.260, necessity, in the
opinion of the Board, shall limit applicants to: any regularly organized fair,
exposition, racing association or non-profit organization, political campaign
function or any for-profit individual, corporation or organization when used in
conjunction with an organized charitable, civic or community sponsored event.
(Prior Code, § 116.032) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.043 RESTAURANT WINE LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   A restaurant wine license may be issued to an applicant who is an
owner or lessee of a restaurant which receives 50% or more of its gross annual
income from the sale of food and has a minimum seating capacity of 50 persons
at tables.
   (B)   The issuance of a restaurant wine license may be subject to the
limitations of KRS 241.060(2).
   (C)   A restaurant wine license shall authorize a licensee to purchase,
receive and sell wine at retail for consumption on the licensed premises. Such
licensee shall purchase wine only from licensed wholesalers.
   (D)   The fee for a restaurant wine license shall be $600 per annum, for a
new applicant and $400 per annum for a renewal license.
(Prior Code, § 116.033) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.044 CONSUMPTION OF DRINK ON PREMISES; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   The City Council of the City, pursuant to KRS 242.185, has determined
that economic hardship exists within the city, as is evidenced by its high rate
of unemployment, slow rate of growth, loss due to plant closings, and a
significant number of vacancies in the Central Business District. The City
Council has further determined that the licensing authorization contained in
divisions (B) and (C) below could aid economic growth. Further, the City
Council adopts this chapter, the “Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance of the
City of Dawson Springs”, as a comprehensive, regulatory ordinance covering,
inter alia, the licensing and operation of hotels, motels, inns and restaurants
for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the
premises.
   (B)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue licenses
authorizing hotels, motels, inns or restaurants to sell alcoholic beverages,
such as distilled spirits and wine by the drink for consumption on the
premises, and malt beverages if a malt beverage license is obtained. The
licenses shall only be issued to hotels, motels or inns containing not less
than 50 sleeping units and having dining facilities for not less than 100
persons at tables, or bona fide restaurants open to the general public having
dining facilities for not less than 100 persons. The term BONA FIDE
RESTAURANTS, as used in this section, shall mean, in addition to having the
minimum seating requirements set forth above, restaurants which derive at least
50% of their gross revenue from the sale of food; this requirement is and shall
be in accord with KRS 243.083. The fee for such a license shall be $600 per
annum.
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 242.185(4), the DSABC is authorized to issue
any license permitted by KRS 242.070, and the activity thereby licensed is
permitted in accordance with state law and city law.
   (D)   Unless a different license fee is provided for in this chapter, the
city license fee for any license authorized by KRS 243.070 shall be the maximum
license fee allowed to the city by KRS 243.070, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (E)   All regulations which may be issued to administer KRS 242.185, this
section of this chapter, and any other provision of this chapter or state law,
shall conform to the requirements of KRS 241.190.
(Prior Code, § 116.034) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.045 SPECIAL PRIVATE CLUB LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue a private club
license to any non-profit social, fraternal, military or political organization
or club, which for more than one year prior to the date of application has
maintained and operated a club room or rooms from which the general public is
excluded. The license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges
of a retail malt beverage licensee, and distilled spirits and wine retail drink
licensee at the designated premises, if the general public is excluded. All
restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine retail
drink license shall apply to a special private club licensee.
   (B)   The fee for this category of license shall be:
 
License Type                            Fee
Special private club license, per annum $300
 
(Prior Code, § 116.035) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.046 MALT BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that it is desirable and appropriate
to regulate conduct on premises licensed to sell malt beverages at retail.
State law makes no distinction between package sales of malt beverages and sale
of malt beverages for consumption on the premises. The city finds that while a
number of licensed premises may be suitable for the sale of malt beverages to
be removed for consumption elsewhere, there are also a number of premises which
are not suitable or appropriate for consumption of malt beverages on the
premises. Examples include, but are not limited to, package distilled spirits
and wine stores, grocery stores, convenience stores and premises which do not
have adequate facilities for the congregation of customers who are consuming on
premises, such as availability of food, adequate restrooms and at least a
minimum of seating for customers.
   (B)   Except for special temporary retail malt beverage licenses issued for
consumption of malt beverages on the premises, no malt beverage licensee shall
allow consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed premises unless the
licensee also holds, for the same premises a:
      (1)   Restaurant wine license;
      (2)   Hotel/motel/inn drink license;
      (3)   Restaurant drink license; or
      (4)   Special private club license.
   (C)   If no license set out in division (B) above is held by the malt
beverage licensee, malt beverage consumption on the premises may nevertheless
be allowed by the licensee on a restaurant premises having seating at table for
no less than 50 persons, and which receives no less than 50% of its total food
sales and alcoholic beverage sales from the sale of food.
   (D)   The intent of this section is to regulate and establish standards of
conduct on premises selling malt beverages under license. This section shall
not be construed as imposing any limitation upon the number of malt beverages
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter. Nothing contained in this section
shall be construed as prohibiting a licensee from selling malt beverages upon
the licensed premises. The sole prohibition contained in this section is
allowing consumption of malt beverages on the licensed premises if the nature
of the premises does not conform with one of the situations described in
divisions (A) or division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 116.036) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.047 SPECIAL SUNDAY SALE LICENSES.
   The sale of alcohol on Sunday shall be permitted between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
(Prior Code, § 116.037) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008; Ord. passed 8-13-2018)
§ 116.048 LICENSE TERM; RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal of licenses required by this chapter shall be made
for each license year, which, in order to coincide with the state license year,
shall begin May 1 and extend through the last day of April of the succeeding
year. Applications for renewal are to be filed with the DSABC no less than 15,
nor more than 45, days prior to expiration.
(Prior Code, § 116.038) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.049 PRO-RATION; REFUNDS PROHIBITED.
   Pro-ration of fees shall be as provided for state licenses in KRS 243.090.
In the event any licensee shall cease doing business for any reasons, no refund
of the city license shall be granted to such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 116.039) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.050 ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, CONTINUANCE, LICENSE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The assignment, transfer, continuance, pledge or hypothecation of city
licenses shall be governed by the provisions of KRS 243.630, 243.640, 243.650
and 243.660. An approval by the state, under those statutes, shall be deemed an
approval by the city. Non-approval by the state shall be deemed non-approval by
the city. No city license may be sold or otherwise transferred (including
transfer to any premises) unless the proposed transfer shall have first
received the approval of the State Board, and thereafter the acknowledgment of
the DSABC is given. A transfer fee of $25 shall be paid to the city.
   (B)   When a license has been lost or destroyed, the DSABC may issue a
duplicate or replacement license upon payment of a fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 116.040) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.051 LOCATION OF BUSINESS RESTRICTED.
   Licenses under this chapter shall not authorize the conduct of business in
any place other than that specifically described in the original state
application and license. Any additional buildings or rooms attached to licensed
premises and requiring separate service bars shall require a city supplemental
bar license.
(Prior Code, § 116.041) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.052 APPLICATION; CONTENTS; EMERGENCY ACTION.
   An applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the DSABC a
copy of such applicant’s state license application containing the information
required by KRS 243.380 and 243.390. The city application shall include the
consent of the applicant permitting the DSABC to inspect and search the
licensed premises at any reasonable time, to confiscate articles found on the
premises in violation of any ordinance, statute or regulation, and to order an
emergency temporary closure of the premises if the public health, safety,
morals and welfare is threatened by one or more violations of any ordinance or
statute involving disturbance of the peace or public disorder. The temporary
closure shall remain in effect until review of the alleged violations by the
DSABC, which review shall occur within 36 hours of the imposition of the
temporary closure.
(Prior Code, § 116.042) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.053 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   If upon review of the application, the DSABC may approve the
application if the DSABC determines that:
      (1)   The applicant has complied with all requirements of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Law, being KRS 241 through 244 and KAR 1 through 13,
as well as all regulatory provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The location is one that can be approved, including but not limited
to the requirements of KRS 243.220;
      (3)   A license may be issued within the quota limits fixed by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board; and
      (4)   There are no other causes for denial of the license.
   (B)   If the DSABC has reasonable grounds to believe that an applicant has
violated any law, rule or regulation relating to alcoholic beverages, the DSABC
may issue to the applicant a written order setting forth such violation and
requiring the applicant to show cause why the requested license should be
issued. The DSABC shall have the right to order, and the applicant shall have
the right to request, an evidentiary hearing to examine the violation set forth
in the show cause order issued by the Administrator. Any decision by the
Administrator on the application shall be subject to appeal as provided by law.
   (C)   As prescribed by KRS 243.550, hearings upon appeals from orders of the
DSABC or upon proceedings for revocation or suspension shall be held by the
Board. The Board may, at its discretion, hold the hearing in Frankfort, or in
the county where the licensed premises, or the premises to be licensed, is
located. Decisions shall be made and final orders entered only upon the vote of
a majority of the Board. The hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Ch. 13B.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 243.560, any final order of the Board refusing,
revoking or suspending a license may be appealed by the applicant or licensee,
and any final order of the Board granting or refusing to revoke or suspend a
license may be appealed by any citizen feeling himself or herself aggrieved.
(Prior Code, § 116.043) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.054 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Upon approval of the application by the DSABC, the applicant shall pay to
the City Clerk/Treasurer the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter
in the form of a certified check, money order or cash. Payment shall be held on
deposit by the city pending state license approval and issuance of the city
license by the DSABC.
(Prior Code, § 116.044) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.055 POSTING OF LICENSES; PUBLIC RECORD.
   Each city license shall be in substantially the same form prescribed by KRS
243.440 for state licenses, and shall be posted at the licensed premises in the
same manner prescribed by KRS 243.620 for state licenses. An exact duplicate or
facsimile of each city license shall remain in the DSABC’s office as part of
the public record.
(Prior Code, § 116.045) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.056 LICENSE TO BECOME VOID IF BUSINESS DORMANT; LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Under the provisions of state statutes, all administrative regulations
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of state statutes, and this chapter, as
they may be amended from time to time, a quota system may exist for the number
of licenses to sell alcoholic beverages in the city. Therefore, it is necessary
that a licensee actually conduct the business, may suffer an interruption of
business by situations not under the licensee’s control, various exceptions to
this dormancy rule are included in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall become null and void. At the expiration of the 90-day period, the
license shall be surrendered to the DSABC; except that, any licensee who is
unable to continue in business at the licensed premises may apply to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Department, pursuant to 804 KAR 4:110, as amended
from time to time, to continue such license in dormancy. In the event a period
of dormancy is applied for or granted by the state, to the licensee, the
licensee shall immediately notify the DSABC. Upon resumption of business or
transfer or assignment of the license, the licensee shall notify the DSABC and
a fee shall be due and payable to the DSABC for the period the licensee was in
dormancy in the same amount due had the license remained active for the same
period.
   (C)   Applications approved by the DSABC and based on pending construction
or development on the premises shall be null and void after 90 days of the
commitment to issue a license if the applicant fails to proceed in an orderly
fashion to initiate construction or development on the premises involved.
Extensions may be granted by the DSABC as it deems appropriate in exercise of
sound discretion based on facts and circumstances surrounding each request.
   (D)   Applications for renewal of licenses and payment of the license fee
must be on file with the DSABC at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days,
before the expiration of the licenses for the preceding license period, or the
license shall be cancelled. However, the licensee may file a written, verified
statement at least 15 days prior to the expiration date of the license, setting
forth facts justifying an extension. The DSABC may then extend the time for
filing an application for renewal of the license for a reasonable length of
time within the exercise of his or her sound discretion. The licensee shall pay
the license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses and
payment shall be refunded to the licensee in the event that the license or
licenses are not renewed at or before the end of the extension period.
(Prior Code, § 116.046) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.057 CAUSES FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE AND FOR SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a city license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450 and 243.500, as well as violation of any city
ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licensing, sales, the administration of
licenses or a licensee allowing conduct on the licensed premises which is
prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed to
any person or other entity delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of issuing the license; nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee, upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city. If a
licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the
city at any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension. The DSABC may, in his
or her discretion, approve a license to sell after receiving from the City
Clerk/Treasurer, a written statement to the effect that the applicant for the
license has paid the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and delinquent
taxes or fees. This section shall apply only to taxes and fees which are due
and payable by the licensee.
   (C)   No retail package liquor license shall be issued for any premises
unless the applicant certifies under oath that 90% of the total projected gross
receipts from sale made at the licensed premises during the 12-month period
following the issuance of the license shall consist of the projected gross
receipts from sales of alcoholic beverages. No retail package liquor shall be
renewed for any premises unless 90% of its gross receipts from sales for the
immediate past month and the immediate past 12 months have been derived from
the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Appeals may be taken from decisions of the DSABC to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board according to the provisions of KRS 241.200 and
243.550.
(Prior Code, § 116.047) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.058 LICENSE TYPES.
   Any existing ordinance or codified framework is hereby added so as to be
consistent with Senate Bill 13 and any existing provisions in contravention
thereof shall heretofore be read in a manner consistent with Senate Bill 13.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-20-2014)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 116.070 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   No person shall sell or dispense at retail, or have in his or her possession
for sale, any alcoholic beverages, nor manufacture or transport any alcoholic
beverages in the city unless first procuring a license under the provisions of
this chapter, all state statutes and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
This chapter and those statutes and regulations shall be hereinafter singularly
and collectively referred to as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law. The
revocation, suspension, non-renewal or other action which obviates the state
license shall also operate to invalidate the corresponding city license.
(Prior Code, § 116.060) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.071 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for the sale at
retail of distilled spirits and wine by the package shall be permitted to
remain open during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, but shall remain
closed during the 24 hours of Sunday, Christmas and at any time when the
election polls are open in the precinct in which the licensee’s business is
located.
   (B)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for other retail
sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be permitted to remain open
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, but shall be closed during
the 24 hours of each Sunday, Christmas and at any time when the election polls
are open in the precinct in which the licensee’s business is located. However,
if the licensee provides a separate department within the licensed premises
capable of being locked and closed off, within which is kept all stocks of
alcoholic beverages, and if the department is kept locked during the aforesaid
time the licensee is not permitted to remain open to sell alcoholic beverages,
the licensee shall be deemed to have complied with division (A) above.
   (C)   Retail sales of malt beverages may be made between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight each day; except that, no such sales shall be made
during the 24 hours of each Sunday, Christmas or during any time when the polls
are open for an election in the precinct in which the license is granted.
Premises for which a malt beverage license has been issued shall be permitted
to remain open during the periods such sales are prohibited if all iced or
chilled malt beverages are locked up and/or unchilled malt beverages are
properly placarded indicating that the sale of such goods is prohibited.
   (D)   Any licensee for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
who violates the preceding section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the
license shall be subject to revocation or suspension within the discretion of
the DSABC.
   (E)   During the time a licensee’s business is actually closed, the premises
of any licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
must be closed to and vacant of all customers and all persons except the
licensee and employees, who shall be allowed on the premises for business
purposes only. Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, given away, delivered or
consumed by anyone in any room of the premises during the closing hours and no
parties, private or public, shall be held on the premises. The premises shall
not be loaned, rented or leased to anyone during closing hours for a party or
for any other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 116.061) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008; Ord. passed 8-13-2018)
Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.072 EXCEPTIONS TO MANDATORY CLOSING TIMES; REQUIREMENTS.
   A licensee of a premises holding a hotel/motel/inn drink license; or a
licensee of a premises holding a restaurant drink license; or a licensee of a
premises holding a restaurant wine license shall be allowed to remain open
during hours when the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited for the sole
purpose of providing food services to the public. However, all stocks of
alcoholic beverages shall be locked and closed off from the public during said
time period.
(Prior Code, § 116.062) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.073 CONFISCATION AUTHORIZED IF VIOLATIONS OCCUR.
   If any alcoholic beverages are found on the outside of the locked or closed-
off department of any licensed premises at any hours during which the licensee
is prohibited by the state law or by this chapter from selling alcoholic
beverages, a prima facie presumption shall arise that such alcoholic beverages
were kept outside the locked or closed-off section for the purpose of sale in
violation of this chapter and the state law, and shall be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license. In addition to other penalties
provided for the violation of this chapter, the DSABC is hereby authorized to
confiscate the alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 116.063) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.074 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No sign, banner, poster or other type of display advertising which
refers, either directly or indirectly, to alcoholic beverages, shall be
displayed on, nor shall it be visible from, the exterior of any premises
licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages; except that, reference to such
may be included in the name of the business. This restriction shall not prevent
any licensee from placing in the window of the licensed premises business price
cards not larger than two and one-half inches in size, setting forth the price
at which he or she offers alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (B)   No flashing, oscillating, rotating, shimmering or other lights
demonstrating movement, or the illusion of movement, shall be used to
illuminate, or be visible from, the exterior of any premises licensed under
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding any license under this
chapter to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a
premium or prize, or for any other purpose in connection with the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with this chapter, KRS 244.130 and any regulation promulgated
pursuant to KRS 244.130.
(Prior Code, § 116.064) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.075 RETAIL SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No retail licensee shall sell, give away or deliver any alcoholic beverages,
or procure or permit any alcoholic beverages to be sold, given away or
delivered to:
   (A)   A minor; except that, in any prosecution for selling alcoholic
beverages to a minor, it shall be an affirmative defense that the sale was
induced by the use of false, fraudulent or altered identification papers or
other documents, and that the appearance and character of the purchaser were
such that his or her age could not have been ascertained by any other means and
that the purchaser’s appearance and character indicated strongly that he or she
was of legal age to purchase alcoholic beverages. This evidence may be
introduced either in mitigation of the charge or as a defense to the charge
itself;
   (B)   A person actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic
beverages;
   (C)   Anyone known to the seller or server to be an habitual drunkard or any
person known to the seller or server to have been convicted of drunkenness as
many as three times within the most recent 12-month period; and/or
   (D)   Anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of any
misdemeanor attributable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic
beverages or anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of a
felony within the preceding 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 116.065) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.076 MINORS NOT TO POSSESS OR PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES NOR TO
MISREPRESENT AGE; USE OF FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in KRS 244.083 and this section, PREMISES means the place of
business of a person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages including, in the
case of drive-in establishments, the entire lot upon which the business
establishment is situated.
   (B)   With regard to persons under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no person under 21 years of age shall
enter any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose
of purchasing or receiving any alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   No person holding any license for on-premises consumption of
distilled spirits and wine or a license for retail malt beverage sales, or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee thereof shall permit any person under the age
of 21 years on the licensed premises unless such premises is a restaurant,
grocery store, hotel, private club or upon the premises for a temporary
licensed event, including plays or bona fide concerts. In such exempted
premises, persons under 21 years of age shall not enter the barroom area;
      (3)   Minors not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian shall not
remain on a licensed premises classified herein as a restaurant after the hour
of 10:00 p.m. unless the minor remains only in the designated restaurant area
which is clearly separated from both the barroom area and any area provided for
dancing; and
      (4)   The prohibitions set forth in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above shall not apply to persons under the age of 21 who are working on the
premises, either as an employee or an independent contractor, which persons may
enter and remain on said premises while they are working, and at no other time.
   (C)   A licensee or any of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees
is guilty of permitting the unlawful possession or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on a licensed premises when he or she:
      (1)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases or exercises control or
ownership of real estate, including, but not limited to, the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and permits any person under the age of 21 to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage on the premises; or
      (2)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases or exercises control or
ownership of real estate, including, but not limited to, the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and allows or permits any person under the
age of 21 years to remain on the premises while that person possesses or
consumes any alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   In the event a violation occurs under the provisions of this section,
the DSABC shall forthwith conduct a hearing pursuant to KRS 243.520 (in
conjunction with KRS 241.160 and 241.190), to determine whether the licensee,
at whose business establishment the prohibited activity occurred, may have such
license suspended or revoked. In the event three or more violations under the
provisions of this section occur at a business establishment within a 12-month
period, the DSABC, after a hearing, shall suspend or revoke said license.
   (E)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess for his or her own use,
or purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her, any
alcoholic beverages. No person shall aid or assist any person under 21 years of
age in purchasing or having delivered or served to him or her any alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age for
the purpose of inducing any licensee, or other employee of any licensee, to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverages to such person.
   (G)   No person under 21 years of age shall use, or attempt to use, any
false, fraudulent or altered identification card or paper, or any other
document, to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any alcoholic
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 116.066) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.077 LICENSEE TO DISPLAY NOTICE REGARDING SALES TO MINORS.
   Every retail licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a
printed card at least eight inches by 11 inches in size which shall show, in 30
point or larger type, substantially as follows.
      Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine up to one hundred
($100) dollars if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 116.067) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.078 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   SERVER, for purposes of this section, shall mean any person employed
or working in any capacity, whether as an employee, volunteer help or as a
working proprietor, in any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages where alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed by the drink or where
malt beverages are sold for consumption on the premises and whose job duties
include the sale, dispensing or service of alcoholic beverages or the
management of the licensed premises.
   (B)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program. For a responsible beverage service training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed in this chapter.
   (C)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 60 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city not less than once every
three years thereafter.
   (D)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the DSABC a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information.
   (E)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary alcoholic
beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply with this
section.
(Prior Code, § 116.068) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
§ 116.090 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee is imposed on the gross receipts from retail
sales of alcoholic beverages under each license issued for the purpose of
ensuring full reimbursement to the city for the cost of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of
alcoholic beverages in the city. The City Council shall adopt, at the budget
adoption for the fiscal year, an annual rate for the regulatory license fee as
shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the
cost of any additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related
to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee
shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or licenses permitted by law,
but a credit against the fee shall be allowed in an amount equal to the
licenses or fees imposed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The regulatory license fee shall be 5% for the licensing year
beginning 5-1-2008, and continuing thereafter until amended or repealed.
(Prior Code, § 116.080) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.091 PAYMENT.
   Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns approved
for use by the DSABC and the City Auditor. The return shall be submitted to the
DSABC by the twentieth day of each month for the preceding month’s sales. The
fraction of the fee required under the provisions of this chapter, represented
by one divided by the number of months for which the city license was issued,
shall be deducted each month as a credit.
(Prior Code, § 116.081) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.092 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the due date
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.082) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.093 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS.
   Interest shall be assessed upon any past due payments at the rate of 12% per
annum.
(Prior Code, § 116.083) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
§ 116.094 ADEQUATE RECORD KEEPING REQUIRED.
   Every licensee shall keep and maintain adequate books and records of all
transactions involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner
required by the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, or such rules and regulations as may be from time to time promulgated by
the DSABC. Where the sales of alcoholic beverages as they relate to other sales
are determinative of the licensee’s eligibility to retain a license, the
licensee shall maintain adequate records to show that relationship. The books
and records shall be available at all reasonable times for inspection by the
DSABC, the City Auditor or any authorized representatives.
(Prior Code, § 116.084) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty for non-payment. If the holder of any license shall fail to
pay the regulatory license fee imposed by this section within ten days of the
due date, an automatic penalty of $50 shall be assessed for the first offense.
An automatic penalty of $100 shall be assessed on the second offense, and an
automatic penalty of $200 shall be assessed on the third offense. In addition
to the monetary penalty, the DSABC may hold a hearing for a second and third
offense requiring the licensee to show cause why the license should not be
suspended or revoked with full authority to do so upon appropriate findings.
The calculation of the number of offenses for the purpose of invoking the above
penalties shall be done on a 12-month basis, with the number of offenses being
reduced to zero at the beginning of each new license period.
   (B)   Infraction constitutes a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be subject to the
following penalties:
         (a)   For the first offense a fine not to exceed $500;
         (b)   For any subsequent offense a fine not to exceed $500 or
confinement in jail not more than six months, or both; and
         (c)   Any proceeding for the revocation of any license issued
hereunder shall be governed in accordance with the provisions of KRS 243.480.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided for herein, any licensee
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to suspension or
revocation of such licensee’s license, subsequent to a hearing before the
DSABC.
(Prior Code, § 116.999) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-26-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Carrying of concealed deadly weapons prohibited
   
130.03   Cannabis business operations prohibited
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
         (a)   After 1:00 a.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After midnight on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
or her parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating this section’s provisions and may take the minor into custody when
found violating provisions of this section. The officer shall take the minor to
the city police headquarters where the name of the minor’s parent, guardian or
person having legal custody of him or her shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child’s detention as required by KRS 610.200 and summoned by
the investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian or person having legal
custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was taken into
custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set forth in
KRS Ch. 610 and other applicable provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code,
regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, person
having legal custody or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) above has occurred, he or she shall cause formal
charges to be filed requiring the child and his or her parent, guardian or
person having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the
charge of a violation of division (A) above.
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by such person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court as required by KRS 610.200.
   (D)   Violation; penalty. Any child violating division (A) above shall be
subject to the procedures and penalties provided for by the State Unified
Juvenile Code. Any parent, guardian or person having legal custody of a child
who violates any provision of division (A) above may be subject to the
financial penalty provided for in KRS 610.180.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CARRYING OF CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   KRS 237.110 is hereby adopted in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. passed 12-2-1996; Ord. 2016-03, passed 9-23-2016)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS PROHIBITED.
   In accordance with KRS 218B.130(2), the City Council has ordained that all
cannabis business operations within the city limits of Dawson Springs are
prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-05, passed 9-17-2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   PLANNING
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of State Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Enforcement
   
150.03   Board of Appeals
   
150.04   Building permits; fees and inspections
   
150.05   Plumbing permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Property maintenance, see
Ch. 99
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in 815 KAR 7; the Kentucky
Plumbing Code, as contained in 815 KAR 20; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in 815 KAR 10; together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed
on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall employ or contract with a Building Official who shall
have responsibility for the enforcement of the State Building Code.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, along with all other officers, agents and employees of
the city, are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the
Standards of Safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 11-7-1963)
§ 150.03 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.070, there is hereby established in the city a
board to be called the Board of Appeals, consisting of five technically
qualified persons with professional experience related to the building industry
to hear appeals from the decision of the local Building Official in accordance
with the requirements of KRS 198B.070.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. At least three members of the Board must not be
employed by the city or its agencies. The Mayor shall designate one of the
members to serve as Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed 12-5-1963)
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMITS; FEES AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, remove or
demolish or to commence the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of
a building or structure or install equipment for the operation of a building or
structure without first filing with the Building Official an application in
writing and obtaining a formal permit.
   (B)   Permit costs.
      (1)   The permit fee shall be based on the following scale:
Estimated Cost of Construction Building Permit Fee
Estimated Cost of Construction                      Building Permit Fee
Less than $20                                       No fee
$20 - $100                                          $2
$101 - $400                                         $3
$401 - $700                                         $5
$701 - $1,000                                       $6
Each additional $1,000 or fraction through $25,000  $3
Each additional $1,000 or fraction through $50,000  $2.50
Each additional $1,000 or fraction through $100,000 $1.50
Each additional $1,000 or more than $100,000        $1
 
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer may take the fee and process the
application, but only the Building Official shall issue the permit.
      (3)   The fee for razing a residential structure will be $10; the fee for
commercial structures will be $50. In addition, the fee for moving a structure
will be $15, with the exception that no substandard structure will be moved
from one location to another.
   (C)   Permit inspections. The Building Official will perform a minimum of
three inspections upon notification by the permit applicant. If the applicant
does not give notice to the Building Official, the Official may require the
applicant to provide sufficient evidence that the work was properly done.
 
First inspection  While footings are being laid.
Second inspection When structural frame is complete and wiring is in place;
                  wiring exposed and junction boxes are exposed.
Third inspection  Upon completion of structure.
 
   (D)   Occupancy. The structure may be occupied upon receipt of a certificate
of occupancy from the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 12-5-1963; Ord. passed 8-18-1969) Penalty,
see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLUMBING means the art of installing in
buildings the pipes for distributing the water supply, the fixtures for using
water and drainage pipes for removing waste and sewage, together with fittings,
appurtenances and appliances of various kinds, all within or adjacent to the
building. It shall include:
      (1)   The water service pipe which forms the connection between the
property line and the building;
      (2)   Private water supply systems;
      (3)   House sewers which convey the wastewater and sewage from the
building to the property line or other points of disposal; and
      (4)   Storm sewers, rain water piping and private sewage disposal
systems.
   (B)   No person shall construct, install or alter any plumbing, sewerage or
drainage system within the city without first having procured a plumbing
installation permit from the County Health Department; provided, however, that,
no permit shall be required for the repair of leaks, cocks, valves or for
cleaning out waste or sewer pipes. All plumbing shall comply with the State
Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. passed 12-5-1963) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the city from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent an
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct or abate a violation,
or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to prevent
an illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 150.98)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code or 815 KAR 7:125 shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $1,000,
for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $100, imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990).
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
(Ord. passed 12-5-1963)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which regulations apply
   
151.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.08   Compliance
   
151.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.10   Interpretation
   
151.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
   
151.25   General standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Streams without established base flood elevation and/or floodways
   
151.28   Subdivision proposals
   
151.29   Areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Administration
   
151.40   Designation of local administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
151.41   Development permit established; procedures
   
151.42   Variance procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in KRS Ch. 100, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain the following regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the ADDITION is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Flood Safety Officer’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs
effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as
existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD/BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), such as, top of slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood
frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely
for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
Historic District or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered Historic District;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NATIONAL
GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929 is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s floodplain management regulations.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as pouring of slabs or
footings, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
alteration or improvements to a building, taking place during a five-year
period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the building. The market value of the building should be the appraised value
of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or in
the case of damage, the value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this
definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH REGULATIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study dated 8-19-1986, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.07) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.08) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.09) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and, deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 151.10) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 151.11) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99 
§ 151.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided, as set forth in §§
151.07 or
151.40(B)(9) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated one foot above the base flood elevation. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential building (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
one foot above the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all A Zones may
be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated; provided that, all areas of the
building below the required elevation are water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
151.40(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (C)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and
other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved outside of
a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
must meet all the requirements for new construction, including elevation and
anchoring.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or
above the level of the base flood elevation;
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above grade;
         (c)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement; and
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
any manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards
of divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(c) above.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.07 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.07 of this chapter, where streams exist, but where no base flood data has
been provided or where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the
following provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within areas of special flood hazard, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community. The
engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms
to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of buildings shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.40(B)(9) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.29 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.07 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the
following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade, at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city’s FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city’s FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade; or
         (b)   Together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   General. The Flood Safety Officer is hereby appointed to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The duties of the Flood Safety Officer shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required and, if specific federal or state permit requirements are known,
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
development permit;
         (c)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Division of Water
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
         (d)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (e)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved buildings, in accordance with §
151.41(B)(2) of this chapter; and
         (f)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
151.41(B)(2) of this chapter.
      (2)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the
Flood Safety Officer shall obtain certification from a registered professional
engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.41(B)(2) of this chapter.
      (3)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Flood Safety Officer shall make the necessary interpretation.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07 of this chapter, then the Flood Safety Officer shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.29 of this chapter.
      (5)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall be open for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.41 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ESTABLISHED; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. A development permit shall be required in conformance with
the provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the Flood Safety Officer on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all buildings;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential building will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   Certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed building will meet the flood-proofing
criteria in §
151.26(B) of this chapter; and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing
certification after the lowest floor is completed. Upon placement of the lowest
floor, or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the duty
of the permit holder to submit to the Flood Safety Officer a certification of
the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in
relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
and certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular
building, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any
work undertaken prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Flood Safety Officer shall review the floor elevation
survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected
by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Flood Safety Officer in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court, as provided in
state statutes.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition in §
151.05 of this chapter) upon determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief; and in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and, a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the building is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   The Flood Safety Officer shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Prior Code, § 151.37) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $25
or imprisoned for not more than one day, or both, and, in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the city from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 151, passed 3-18-1996)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Restrictions upon placement of mobile homes
   
152.03   Storage of camper trailers
   
152.04   Trailer park regulations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different interpretation.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. Any housetrailer or mobile home which is a self-
propelled or non-self-propelled vehicle or similar portable structure used or
maintained for use or constructed as to permit use, as a conveyance upon public
streets or highways or, designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a permanent
or temporary dwelling place for one or more persons, as a sleeping place for
one or more persons, for the conduct of any business or profession, occupation
or trade or which is held for sale or lease, whether resting on wheels, jacks
or other foundations.
   PERMANENT, FIXED FOUNDATION. A foundation which is permanent in nature and
which is so constructed as to be fixed upon the surface of land. This shall
include, but not be limited to, those instances in which the wheels or the
mobile parts of a mobile home have been removed, so that the unit rests upon a
PERMANENT, FIXED FOUNDATION. This shall also include those instances in which
the mobile home has been mounted upon a permanent or semi-permanent structure
and solid underpinning has been installed beneath the trailer.
   SOLID UNDERPINNING. An opaque metal or plastic material designed for
purposes of insulating beneath a trailer or for purposes of enclosing a space
which lies between the bottom of the trailer and the ground. (See KRS 132.720.)
   TRAILER PARK. Includes the terms TRAILER COACH PARK, TRAILER COURT or
PARKING SPACE and shall mean an area of land upon which one or more
housetrailers are placed for revenue purposes.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 8-7-1989)
§ 152.02 RESTRICTIONS UPON PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Effective 8-7-1989, it shall be unlawful to place a mobile home or
trailer within the city limits for any purpose, until such time as certain
minimal requirements have been met.
   (B)   Those mobile homes or trailers which are in place within the city
limits on and prior to the date immediately prior to 8-7-1989 shall not be
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter. However, if a mobile home
or trailer is to be moved from one parcel of ground to another within the city
limits after the date this chapter becomes effective, then the party proposing
to move said mobile home or trailer must comply with the terms and conditions
of this chapter. If the mobile home would not otherwise be subject to the
provisions of this chapter following the date of implementation of this chapter
and if that mobile home is sold to another person without moving the mobile
home or trailer from its present location, then the provisions of this chapter
would not apply.
   (C)   If a mobile home or trailer is to be moved, and is subject to this
chapter, the party seeking to move or to install said mobile home shall contact
the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall pay a $10 fee for a mobile home or trailer
license.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a mobile home or trailer license
if the vehicle meets a definition as described above and if one or more of the
following criteria have been met:
      (1)   If the mobile home or trailer is new; or
      (2)    If the mobile home or trailer is used, a certified appraisal
conducted by a licensed appraiser shall be presented certifying the value of
the mobile home, at not less than $50,000. The cost of the appraisal shall be
borne by the applicant.
   (E)   The applicant shall, along with his or her application, provide a copy
of a valid bill of sale or other official certificate of ownership.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the application, the city must complete the processing
of the application and, if appropriate, issue the license to the applicant
within seven calendar days from the date of submission. If the application is
denied due to failure to comply with the terms and conditions necessary for
issuance of a license, the applicant cannot move the mobile home within the
city limits until a license is approved.
   (G)   If an application is denied, and if the applicant can subsequently
meet the criteria for issuance of a license, then the application process shall
be repeated and, if appropriate, a license will be issued.
   (H)   Once a license has been issued, the mobile home or trailer may be
placed upon a lot, other than a lot in a licensed or approved mobile home or
trailer park, for a period not to exceed one year from the date of the license.
Within that one-year period of time, the occupant or owner of the mobile home
or trailer shall be required to convert the mobile home or trailer into a
permanent or semi-permanent dwelling. A mobile home or trailer may be converted
to a permanent or semi-permanent dwelling by removing the wheels; or, by
removing the transporting devices for the mobile home; or, by placing the
mobile home upon a permanent structure such as a concrete foundation or
concrete lot foundation or as an absolute minimum by installing underpinning as
described above.
   (I)   Following the issuance of a license, if the occupant or owner fails to
render the mobile home or trailer a permanent or semi-permanent structure
within one calendar year from the date that the license issued, the license
shall become null and void and the owner or applicant shall become compelled to
remove the mobile home from the city limits.
   (J)   All mobile homes will be subject to §
92.35 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed 8-7-1989; Ord. 152, passed 6-2-1992; Ord.
152, passed 4-18-2005; Ord. 2017-02, passed 9-27-2017; Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-
10-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 STORAGE OF CAMPER TRAILERS.
   This section shall not apply to those trailers or mobile homes which do not
exceed the width of eight feet or a length of 30 feet. It is deemed that a
trailer with a width of eight feet or less and a length of 30 feet or less
shall be considered to be a traveling or camping trailer and shall not be
considered a mobile home. However, if it is subsequently determined that a
trailer with a width of eight feet or less or a length of 30 feet or less has
been moved within the city limits or from an existing lot within the city
limits to another lot within the city limits, and, if the trailer is being used
as a residence on a regular and sustained basis, then the provisions of this
section shall not apply and the owner or occupant shall be compelled to seek
and obtain a license and shall begin the process of converting that facility to
a permanent or semi-permanent status.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed 8-7-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Following the date of implementation of this chapter, any party
seeking to construct upon a single parcel of ground more than two mobile homes
or trailers for private or commercial use, shall be deemed to have constructed
a trailer park and shall be subject to the provisions of KRS 219.320 through
KRS 219.991.
   (B)   Prior to the construction of a trailer park, the applicant shall
petition the city, through the City Clerk/Treasurer, for a license which shall
disclose upon the face of the application, the following minimal information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and location of the proposed trailer park;
      (3)   A plat setting forth the dimensions of the proposed trailer park,
to include as a minimum, existing lot lines; proposed lot lines; existing or
proposed roads and easements; and, designation of utilities to include location
of water, sewer and gas lines;
      (4)   Each mobile home lot shall be numbered;
      (5)   The contour lines which shall indicate the slope and drainage of
the lot;
      (6)   The location of any public areas such as visitors parking,
recreational areas and the like if such areas are proposed; and
      (7)   A large scale plan of the mobile home lot showing mobile home
locations, automobile parking spaces and the like.
   (C)   All proposed trailer parks shall meet the following minimal
requirements for standards of development.
      (1)   No mobile home park shall be proposed with less than three mobile
home lots.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot shall provide not less than 2,500 square foot
of space.
      (3)   Each mobile home park shall front onto a public street for not less
than 100 feet.
      (4)   No mobile home shall be located closer than 15 feet to another
mobile home.
      (5)   Each mobile home park shall have constructed prior to issuance of a
license, a weather-bound road of not less than 15 feet in width to provide
direct access to each mobile home lot and to a public street. The street shall
not be counted toward the space requirements for a lot. All roads shall be
designed to enable a mobile home entering the trailer park to reverse
direction, without having to back more than one mobile home length.
      (6)   One weather-bound automobile parking area, per lot, shall be
provided.
      (7)   No accessory structure, to include patios, shall be located within
five feet of any trailer lot line. The floor area shall not be greater than 100
feet and the height shall not be greater than ten feet of any accessory
structure.
      (8)   Only porches, stairs and other open structures may be attached to a
trailer.
      (9)   All trailer parks must seek and obtain approval and maintain
compliance with the State Board of Health Regulations and standards concerning
water supply, sewage disposal and other facilities. Additionally, each trailer
park shall be adequately drained so as to prevent the collection of storm water
in such a fashion so as to prevent the collection of storm water.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed 8-7-1989) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $500, per day
and each day following written notification of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Additionally, if an owner or occupant of a mobile home is found to be
in violation of one or more provisions of this chapter, the owner or occupant
may remedy the violation by contacting the city police and by requesting an
investigation by the city police to confirm that the owner or occupant has
rectified the violation. If the city police certify to the city that the owner
or applicant is no longer in violation of this chapter, no fine or penalty
shall occur. However, if the owner or applicant fails to notify the city or,
within seven days within written notice, fails to take action to remedy and, in
fact, remedies the violation within that seven-day period of time, the city
shall issue a notice to the owner or occupant that the city will move or
otherwise transport the mobile home from its current location to a holding
area. The cost of the transport and storage of the mobile home in the holding
area shall be borne by the owner or applicant.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. passed 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING
Section
   
153.01   Agreement establishing joint planning unit adopted
§ 153.01 AGREEMENT ESTABLISHING JOINT PLANNING UNIT ADOPTED.
   The agreement of the establishment of a Joint City-County Planning Unit,
Joint City-County Planning Commission and Boards of Adjustment conforming to
the provisions of KRS Ch. 100 as attached to ordinance dated 6-24-1967, along
with any amendments thereto, are hereby made a part hereof as if set out in
full.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 6-24-1967; Ord. passed 6-16-1980)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Zoning code adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance dated 7-3-1995, as the official zoning ordinance of the
city, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set
forth at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 154, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 10-
15-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 155: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
Section
   
155.01   Intent and declaration of public policy
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Historic District Commission
   
155.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
155.05   Nominations to National Register of Historic Places
   
155.06   Designation of Historic Preservation Districts and landmarks
   
155.07   Approval of changes to landmarks and property in Historic Preservation
Districts
   
155.08   Conformity with certificate of appropriateness
   
155.09   Severability
   
155.10   Legal status
   
155.11   Zoning conflicts
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 INTENT AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the city has been damaged because of new
construction that has harmed the historic and architectural character of the
city notwithstanding the feasibility and desirability of designing new
buildings that would be appropriate to the established character of the city.
   (B)   The Council finds that buildings having historic, architectural or
cultural value have been significantly altered or destroyed notwithstanding the
feasibility of preserving these buildings or altering them in an appropriate
way.
   (C)   The Council finds that the historic and architectural character of the
city is of vital importance in maintaining the economy of the city.
   (D)   The Council finds that the city has played an important role in the
development of the county and that the history of the city is shown today
through buildings representing the activities and events during its growth. The
Council finds that the city has buildings that represent the persons who live
or have lived in the city during a period of more than 100 years. It is the
finding of the City Council that the distinctive and significant character of
the city can only be maintained by protecting and enhancing its historic,
architectural and cultural heritage and by preventing unnecessary injury to its
Historic Preservation District and its landmarks which are a civic and
community asset.
   (E)   The Council finds that the federal and state governments have passed
laws to protect Historic Districts and landmarks and that the National Historic
Preservation District Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq., was amended in 1980
to establish a certified local government program creating a new federal-state-
local partnership to encourage the efforts by cities to protect and preserve
their Historic Districts and landmarks.
   (F)   The Council finds that this chapter and the historic preservation
program benefits all the residents of the city and all the owners of property.
   (G)   The City Council declares as a matter of public policy that the
preservation, protection and use of Historic Districts and landmarks are a
public necessity because they have a special character and historic,
architectural and cultural value and thus serve as visible reminders of the
history and heritage of the city, state and nation. The Council declares as a
matter of public policy that this chapter is required in the interest of the
health, prosperity, safety, welfare and economic well-being of the people.
   (H)   The purpose of this chapter is to effect the goals as set forth in the
above findings and declarations of public policy and specifically, but not
exclusively, to:
      (1)   Effect and accomplish the preservation, protection and use of the
Historic Preservation District and individual landmarks which have a special
character and historic, architectural value to the city, state and nation;
      (2)   Promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of
the people and safeguard the city’s history and heritage as embodied and
reflected in its Historic Preservation District and landmarks;
      (3)   Stabilize and improve property values in such district and in the
city as a whole;
      (4)   Foster civic pride in the value of notable accomplishments of the
past;
      (5)   Strengthen the economy of the city;
      (6)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractions to residents and
visitors; and
      (7)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and interest
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 156.01) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any construction, replacement or change to the exterior of a
building or structure when it is visible to the public. An ALTERATION shall
include a proposed sign of changes or an existing sign.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The permit, issued by the Historic District
Commission, which gives its approval for work to be done in the Historic
Preservation District or on a landmark.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A government meeting the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act and the regulations of the U.S. Department
of the Interior and the State Heritage Council.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation District Commission.
   DEMOLITION. Any act that destroys in whole or part, a landmark or a building
or structure in the Historic Preservation District.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. An area of architectural, historical or
cultural significance which meets one or more of the criteria contained in §
155.06 of this chapter and which has been designated by the city.
   LANDMARK. A building or structure of architectural, historical or cultural
significance which meets one or more of the criteria contained in §
155.06 of this chapter and which has been designated by the city.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. An addition to an existing building or structure or the
construction of a new building or structure.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Any work, the purpose of which is to
correct deterioration or to prevent deterioration of a designated historic
property. The work shall restore the property to its appearance prior to
deterioration or shall result in the protection of its appearance. The work
shall involve the use of the same building materials or as close as possible to
the original.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Hopkins County Joint Planning and Zoning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 156.02) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.03 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Historic District
Commission for the city. The Commission shall consist of five members appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The members shall have
demonstrated interest in historic preservation and at least two members shall
have training or experience in a preservation-related profession: architecture,
history, archeology, architectural history, planning or related fields. When
one or two professional members are not available, the Mayor may appoint other
persons interested in historic preservation to serve. When the Commission
reviews an issue that is normally evaluated by a professional member and that
field is not represented by the Commission, the Commission shall seek expert
advice before rendering its decision. In making appointments, the Mayor shall
seek to include a member who is active in real estate. Members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation, but they will be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties in accordance with the
rules educational meeting on historic preservation per year. This meeting shall
have been approved by the State Historic Preservation Officer.
   (B)   Terms of office. The terms of office of the members shall be three
years, except the terms of one member of the original Commission shall expire
after two years and the term of one member of the original Commission shall
expire after one year. Each member shall serve until the appointment and
qualification of his successor. Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled
within 60 days. When a vacancy occurs during a term of office, it shall be
filled within 60 days, and the person selected shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Officers. The Commission shall each year elect members to serve as
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary. The Chairperson shall preside at
the meetings of the Commission and shall be spokesperson for the Commission. In
his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform these duties. The
Secretary shall prepare in minutes of the Commission’s meetings which shall be
available for public inspection.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. No member of the Commission shall vote on any
matter that may affect the property, income or business of that member.
(Prior Code, § 156.03) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
§ 155.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Specific powers. In addition to the powers and duties stated
elsewhere, the Commission shall take action necessary and appropriate to
accomplish the purpose of this chapter. These actions may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Conducting or causing to be conducted a continuing survey of
cultural resources in the community according to the guidelines established by
the State Heritage Council. Local review commissions may receive copies of the
State Heritage Council inventory of historic buildings for their community;
      (2)   Recommending to the City Council the designation of Historic
Preservation Districts and individual landmarks;
      (3)   Establishing and using written guidelines for the conservation of
designated local landmarks and historical districts in decisions on requests
for permits for alterations, demolition or additions to listed landmarks and
buildings within Historic Districts; regulating alterations; regulating
demolitions, relocations, maintenance and repairs and new construction
involving designated property;
      (4)   Acting in an advisory role to other officials and departments of
local government regarding the protection of local cultural resources, advising
the federal, state and county governments and other parts of city government;
      (5)   Acting as a liaison on behalf of local government by advising and
assisting individuals and organizations concerned with historic preservation;
      (6)   Conducting educational programs including the preparation of
publications and the placing of historical markers;
      (7)   Attending at least one informational/educational meeting per year,
approved by the State Historic Preservation Officer; and/or
      (8)   May receive regular assistance in the performance of its
responsibilities from the city staff. In addition, the city shall, by contract,
obtain assistance on preservation matters from a professional with expertise in
historic preservation or a closely related field.
   (B)   Rehabilitation of buildings. The Commissions may initiate and
encourage plans for the preservation and rehabilitation of individual historic
buildings. The Commission shall, on a regular basis, give special recognition
by way of awards or press releases, to owners and tenants who maintain or
rehabilitate their historic buildings with care and thus contribute to the
preservation of the history of the city.
   (C)   Survey of historic buildings. In making its survey of historic
buildings and areas, the Commission shall conduct this work in accordance with
the guidelines of the State Heritage Council. The Commission shall provide its
survey and preservation plan to assist the city and the county in their overall
planning efforts.
   (D)   Meetings of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt and make public
rules for the transaction of its business and shall hold monthly public
meetings, when necessary. All meetings shall require a quorum of three members,
the Chairperson reserving the right to vote. All meetings shall have a
previously available agenda and shall comply with the State Open Meetings
Statute, KRS 61.805. A simple majority of the membership attending shall be
required for decisions involving Historic Districts and landmarks.
   (E)   Annual report. The Commission shall prepare and keep on file,
available for public inspection, a written annual report of its activities,
cases, decisions, qualifications of members and other work.
   (F)   Right to receive and spend funds. The Commission, in addition to any
appropriations made by the city, shall have the right to receive, hold and
spend funds which it may legally receive from any and every source both in and
out of the commonwealth for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Other duties under the certified local government program. In the
development of the certified local government program, the city may ask the
Commission to perform other responsibilities that may be delegated to the city
under the National Historic Preservation Act.
(Prior Code, § 156.04) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.05 NOMINATIONS TO NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES.
   (A)   Initiation of nominations; appeal. To participate in the certified
local government program, the city shall initiate all local nominations to the
National Register of Historical Places and shall request the Commission to
submit recommendations on each proposed nomination to the National Register.
The Commission shall obtain comments from the public that shall be included in
their National Register recommendations. Within 60 days of the receipt of a
nomination from a private individual or the initiation of a nomination by the
city, the city shall inform the State Heritage Council and the owners of the
property of the two recommendations regarding the eligibility of the property.
The Commission’s decision shall be forwarded in the city’s report. However, if
the city and the Commission do not agree, both opinions shall be forwarded in
the city’s report. If the city and the Commission recommend that a property not
be nominated, the State Heritage Council shall inform the property owner, the
State Historic Preservation Review Board and the State Preservation Officer,
and the property will not be nominated unless an appeal is filed with the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Register criteria for evaluation is found in 36
C.F.R. § 60.4, National Register.
   (B)   Review of nominations; appeals. If the city and the Commission agree
that a property should be nominated or if either of them feel that a property
shall be nominated, the nomination will receive a preliminary review by the
State Historic Preservation Board. The Review Board shall make a recommendation
to the State Historic Preservation Officer who decides whether to forward the
nomination to the U.S. Secretary of the Interior who shall make the decision on
listing the property on the National Register. The city, the Commission or the
property owner may appeal the final decision by the State Historic Preservation
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 156.05) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
§ 155.06 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Recommendations and designations. The Commission shall recommend to
the City Council the designation of Historic Preservation Districts and
individual landmarks, and the City Council may make these designations by the
enactment of ordinances.
   (B)   Public hearing and notice. To start the designation process, the
Commission shall assemble information about the district or property being
considered for designation and shall schedule a public hearing on the proposed
designation. Advertised notice of the hearing shall be given, including
conspicuous posting in the proposed district or on the lot of the proposed
landmark for 15 consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. Notice shall
also be given in a zoned publication serving the city. At least 15 days’ prior
to the public hearing, written notice shall be given by certified mail to the
owners of property under consideration and the owners of all adjoining
property. Secretary of the Commission or other officer of the Commission shall
certify that the notices were mailed. Written notice shall be considered
sufficient when it is mailed to the person listed on the tax rolls of the city.
   (C)   Guidelines. Before its first public hearing on a designation, the
Commission shall adopt general guidelines that will apply to Historic
Preservation Districts and landmarks and will assist owners in the preservation
and rehabilitation of their property. The guidelines shall include the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings and may include other guidelines that will
apply to all designated property in the city. In its guidelines and in its
decisions, the Commission shall not limit new construction to any one
architectural style, but shall seek to preserve the character and integrity of
the Historic Districts and landmarks. The Commission may expand or amend the
guidelines it has adopted; provided, it holds a public hearing on the changes
and submits the proposed changes to the City Council for its comments.
   (D)   Criteria for designation. A Historic Preservation District or landmark
shall qualify for designation when it meets one or more of the following
criteria, which shall be discussed in a Commission report making its
recommendations to the City Council:
      (1)   Its character as an established and geographically definable
residential neighborhood, united by culture, architectural styles or physical
plan and development;
      (2)   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration of buildings or structures united by past events or
by its plan or physical development;
      (3)   Its value as a reminder of the culture or archeological heritage of
the city, state or nation;
      (4)   Its location as a site of a significant local, state or national
event;
      (5)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, state or nation;
      (6)   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer or
architect whose work has influenced the development of the city, state or
nation;
      (7)   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of its
architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing its architectural
significance; or
      (8)   Its distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, method or construction or use of indigenous
materials.
   (E)   Report to the City Council. After evaluating the testimony at its
public hearing, survey information and other material it has assembled, the
Commission shall make its recommendation to the City Council with a written
report on the area or property under consideration. The report shall contain
information about the buildings which have been identified for inclusion in the
proposed designation. The recommendation and the report shall also be sent to
the County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (F)   Review by the Planning Commission. The Commission shall, at the same
time it submits its recommendation and report to the City Council, send them to
the County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission and request a review and
comments from that Planning Commission within 60 days based on the relationship
between the proposed designation and existing and future plans for the
development of the city.
   (G)   Action by City Council. The City Council shall approve, modify or
disapprove the proposed designation within 60 days after the recommendation and
report of the Commission. This time period may be extended to 90 days if a
review has not been received from the County Planning Commission within the
initial 60 days to allow consideration of that review.
   (H)   Notification of designation. The Commission shall notify each owner of
the decision relating to its property and shall arrange that the designation of
a property as a landmark or as a part of a Historic Preservation District be
filed by the County Clerk in the land records by owner’s name and tax district
lot and block number. The Commission shall also give notice of the designation
to the government offices in the city and county which shall retain them for
future reference. The Commission shall also send a map of the approved Historic
Preservation District to the County Planning Commission and request the
Planning Commission to make a note on the zoning map or zoning map overlay of
the existence of the Historic Preservation District and make the map of it
available to the public. The Commission shall also request the Planning
Commission to include the approved Historic Preservation District and approved
landmarks on the graphics of the Comprehensive Plan and any amendments thereto
and such new Comprehensive Plan as may thereafter be adopted.
   (I)   Amendment or rescission of a designation. The amendment or rescission
of any designation shall be accomplished through the same steps as were
followed in the original designation.
(Prior Code, § 156.06) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.07 APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO LANDMARKS AND PROPERTY IN HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Requirement for certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   A certificate of appropriateness from the Commission shall be
required before a person may undertake the following actions affecting a
landmark or a property in a Historic Preservation District:
         (a)   Alteration of the exterior part of a building or structure that
is visible to the public;
         (b)   New construction;
         (c)   Demolition; or
         (d)   Relocation.
      (2)   A certificate of appropriateness is required even when the proposed
work does not require a building permit. When seeking a building permit from
city government for a project involving designated property, a person must
submit a certificate of appropriateness approving any of the work listed in
this division (A).
   (B)   Application to the Commission. A person shall be referred to the
Commission by the City Clerk/Treasurer when he or she wants to undertake an
exterior alteration visible to the public, new construction, demolition or
relocation affecting a landmark or a property in a Historic Preservation
District. The person shall supply the Commission with the information it
requests in order to reach a decision on his or her application for a
certificate of appropriateness. The applicant shall provide, where applicable,
drawings of the proposed work, photographs of the existing building or site and
adjacent properties, and information about the building materials to be used.
   (C)   Stop work order; injunction. In the event work is being performed
without the required certificate of appropriateness, the city shall issue a
stop work order. All work shall cease on the designated property. No additional
work shall be undertaken as long as such stop work order shall continue in
effect. The Commission shall meet with the owner or tenant to resolve the
problem. The City Attorney may seek in Circuit Court injunction and any other
appropriate relief in order that the intent of this chapter shall be carried
out. The procedures authorized in this division (C) may also be used in the
event work is being performed which is not in accordance with the certificate
of appropriateness issued by the Commission.
   (D)   Action by Historic District Commission; notice.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after a completed application is received by the
Commission. The Commission shall make a decision on the application within 45
days after the receipt of a completed application; provided that, the
Commission may extend the time for decision an additional 60 days when the
application is for a demolition or new construction. The Commission shall
approve or disapprove each application, and it shall give its reasons for its
decision using the criteria contained in this section and in its guidelines.
The Commission may suggest modifications to an application and may then approve
a certificate of appropriateness providing for revisions in the plans
submitted. If the Commission fails to decide on an application within the
specified time period, the application shall be deemed approved.
      (2)   Applicants shall be given notice of the public hearings and
meetings relating to their application and shall be informed of the
Commission’s decision. When an application has been approved, the applicant
shall be given a certificate of appropriateness. Advertised notice of the
public hearing shall be given, including conspicuous posting on the property
for five consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. Notice shall also
be given in a zoned publication serving the city. The Commission may include in
its application fee a charge for the cost of giving notice of the public
hearing.
   (E)   Criteria in deciding on applications. In making a decision on an
application, the Commission shall use its guidelines. The Commission shall
consider:
      (1)   The effect of the proposed work on the landmark or property in the
Historic District upon which work is to be done; and
      (2)   The relationship between such work and other adjacent or nearby
buildings and property. In evaluating the effect and the relationship, the
Commission shall consider historical and architectural significance,
architectural style, design, texture, materials and color. The certificate from
the Commission shall not relieve the applicant from complying with the
requirements of other state and local laws and regulations.
   (F)   Criteria in deciding on applications. Before an applicant prepares his
or her plans, he or she may bring a tentative proposal to the Commission for
its comments. The Commission shall be aware of the importance of finding a way
to meet the current needs of the applicant. The Commission shall also recognize
the importance of approving plans that will be reasonable for the applicant to
carry out.
   (G)   Routine alterations; ordinary maintenance.
      (1)   The Commission shall prepare a list of routine alterations that
shall receive immediate approval from the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson or
the Commission without a public hearing, when an applicant complies with the
specifications of the Commission. The list shall include repairs to doors,
windows, awnings, roofs and the like. At each meeting, the Commission shall be
informed of the certificates of appropriateness that have been issued under the
provision.
      (2)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance may be undertaken without a
certificate of appropriateness; provided, this work on a landmark or a property
in a Historic District does not change its exterior appearance that is visible
to the public. Every person in charge of a landmark or a property in a Historic
District shall keep in good repair:
         (a)   All of the exterior portions of such buildings or structures;
and
         (b)   All interior portions thereof which, if not so maintained, may
cause such buildings or structures to deteriorate or become damaged or
otherwise to fall into a state of disrepair.
      (3)   The purpose of this provision is to prevent a person from forcing
the demolition of his building by neglecting it and by permitting damage to the
building because of weather or vandalism. No provision in this chapter shall be
interpreted to require an owner or tenant to undertake an alteration or to
restore his or her building to its original appearance. The provisions of this
section shall be in addition to the provisions of the Design Guidelines and the
State Building Code requiring buildings and structures to be kept in good
repair.
   (H)   Emergency situation.
      (1)   When a property is damaged by fire, a storm or other unexpected
event, the owner or tenant may receive approval from the Chairperson or Vice-
Chairperson of the Commission for work to be done in response to this
emergency. At its next meeting, the Commission shall be informed of the
certificate of appropriateness that was issued. In situations requiring
temporary action, an owner may do work in order to protect temporarily his or
her property from further damage; provided, he or she reports this work to the
Commission within two business days.
      (2)   In any case where the city determines that there are emergency
conditions dangerous to life, health or property affecting a landmark or a
property in a Historic District, the city may order the remedying of these
conditions without the approval of the Commission. When it is possible, the
city shall consult with the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the Commission
about the action being taken. If consultation is not possible, the city shall
notify the Commission of the action taken after the completion of the work.
   (I)   Demolition of a landmark or a building in a Historic Preservation
District. When an applicant wishes to demolish a landmark or a building or
structure in a Historic Preservation District, the Commission shall negotiate
with the applicant to see if an alternative to demolition can be found. The
Commission may ask interested individuals and organizations for assistance in
seeking an alternative to demolition and in obtaining estimates on
rehabilitation costs for the threatened building. After its public hearing, the
Commission may decide that a building or structure in a Historic Preservation
District may be demolished because it does not contribute to the Historic
District. On all other demolition applications, the Commission shall study the
question of economic hardship for the applicant and shall determine whether the
landmark or property in the Historic Preservation District can be put to
reasonable beneficial use without the approval of the demolition application.
In the case of an income-producing building, the Commission shall also
determine whether the applicant can obtain a reasonable return from his or her
building. The Commission may ask applicants for additional information to be
used in making these determinations. If economic hardship or the loss of a
reasonable return is not proved, the Commission shall deny the demolition
application unless the Commission finds grounds to grant the demolition
application under the points contained in division (E) above.
   (J)   Moving a landmark or a building or structure in a Historic
Preservation District. When an applicant wishes to move a landmark or a
building or structure in a Historic District or when an applicant wishes to
move a building or structure to a lot containing a landmark or to a property in
a Historic District, the Commission shall consider:
      (1)   The contribution the building or structure makes to its present
setting;
      (2)   Whether there are definite plans for the site to be vacated;
      (3)   Whether the building or structure can be moved without significant
damage to its physical integrity; and
      (4)   The compatibility of the building or structure to its proposed site
and adjacent properties. These considerations shall be in addition to the
points contained in division (E) above.
   (K)   Length of validity of certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of
appropriateness shall remain valid for one year after it is issued. Work is
required to start before the end of the one-year period. If the approved work
has not been completed within two years after the certificate of
appropriateness was issued, the Commission shall review the situation and may
require an application for a certificate of appropriateness for the work that
remains to be done.
   (L)   Appeal of Commission’s decision. The applicant shall have a right to
appeal within 30 days from the date of the Commission’s decision to the Circuit
Court from a decision of the Commission on an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
(Prior Code, § 156.07) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.08 CONFORMITY WITH CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness shall
conform to the provisions of such certificate. It shall be the responsibility
of the Zoning Administrator and the Commission to inspect from time to time any
work being performed to assure such compliance. In the event work is being
performed which is not in accordance with such certificate, the city shall
issue a stop work order. All work shall cease in the designated property. No
additional work shall be undertaken as long as such stop work order shall
continue in effect. The Commission shall meet with the owner or tenant to
resolve the problem. The City Attorney may seek, in Circuit Court, an
injunction and any other appropriate relief in order that the intent of this
chapter shall be carried out.
(Prior Code, § 156.08) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
§ 155.09 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and, if
any section, phrase or provision shall, for any reason, be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, such declarations of invalidity or unconstitutionality shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.09) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.10 LEGAL STATUS.
   Provisions of this chapter shall be held as minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety, morals and the general welfare. Whenever
the regulations of this chapter require a more restrictive use of land, or
impose other higher standards than are required in other chapters or
regulations, private deed restrictions or private covenants, this chapter shall
govern. However, if the requirements of the other chapters and/or covenants are
more restrictive than established in this chapter, then those requirements
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 156.10) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.11 ZONING CONFLICTS.
   Whenever conflicts shall arise between the provisions established herein,
and the underlying zoning classifications and regulations, it is intended that
the provisions set forth relating to the Historic Preservation District,
landmark and landmark site shall take precedence. This is further upheld by
provision of Art. 4, § 4.07, of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 156.11) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996; Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty of $250 for
each offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 156.99) (Ord. passed 8-19-1996)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VIII.   VACATIONS
      
IX.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
X.   STREET NAMES
      
XI.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     3-18-  Annexing territory beginning at a point on the east bank of Tradewater River,
      1957   200 feet north of the intersection of West Walnut Street
-     11-7-  Annexing territory beginning at the southeast corner of the University of
      1963   Kentucky Youth Camp and State Wildlife Refuge
-     3-19-  Annexing territory beginning at the intersection of the existing city
      1964   boundary line and the north right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 62
      10-25- Removing territory from the city limits, beginning at a point in the west
-     1965   right-of-way line of the Illinois Central Railroad, 2219.81 feet from the
             Western Kentucky Parkway
      4-13-  Reducing the boundary of the city limits by striking territory beginning at
-     1966   the northeast corner of the city, also the corner of G.T. Mullins, Illinois
             Central Railroad and Manufacturer’s Equipment Company and Mill Supply, Inc.
      10-5-  Annexing territory beginning at a point where the east city limits intersects
-     1992   the U.S. Highway 62 centerline, thence along the east city limits N 1 degree
             E, 600 feet more or less to a point in the south east city limits
-     10-5-  Annexing four tracts of territory:
      1992
             (1) Beginning at a point in the original north line of the airport property;
           said point is located south 83 degrees, 18 feet, 30 inches east 570.63 feet
             from the original northwest corner of said airport property in the east
             right-of-way of the Illinois Central Railroad
             (2) Beginning at the center of Hurricane Creek and the south edge of a gravel
           road; said gravel road being an extension of Rosedale Lane, said center of
             creek located 772 feet from I.C.R.R. east right-of-way along the south edge
             of road
           (3) Two certain tracts of parcels of land in Hopkins County, near Dawson
             Spring on the waters of Hurricane Creek
             (4) Beginning at a stake located on the south edge of a gravel road; said
           gravel road being an extension of Rosedale Lane, said stake located 672 feet
             from I.C.R.R. along the south edge of road
      3-2-   Closing an alley from Cook Street to Trim Street; the city retains a
-     1998   permanent easement along the course of the alley for the purpose of
             constructing a walking trail with interpretive markers
-     4-6-   Annexing property which encompasses two tracts of land pursuant to provisions
      1998   of KRS Ch. 81a and KRS Ch. 242, and specifically pursuant to KRS 81a.412
Res.  8-17-  Adopting a modern and accurate legal description of territory previously
2015- 2015   annexed by ordinance, as set forth in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to
12           Resolution 2015-12
Res.  8-17-  Adopting a modern and accurate legal description of territory previously
2015- 2015   annexed by ordinance, as set forth in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to
13           Resolution 2015-13
            
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-5-1953   Authorizing the issuance of $325,000 of water and sewer
                     revenue bonds
-        10-5-1953   Authorizing the issuance of $100,000 of water and sewer
                     revenue bonds
-        6-6-1963    Authorizing the issuance of $351,000 of water and sewer
                     revenue bonds, Series 1962
                     Authorizing the issuance of $351,000 of water and sewer
-        1-23-1964   revenue bonds, Series A, and $78,000 of water and sewer
                     revenue bonds, Series B
-        5-4-1982    Authorizing the issuance of $5,300,000 of industrial
                     building revenue bonds, Series A
-        7-9-2002    Adoption of refunding water and sewer bond ordinance
                     Authorizing the sale of $460,000 water system revenue
-        4-7-2004    bonds for the purpose of financing the cost of an elevated
                     water tank
-        - -         Authorizing the issuance and sale of $533,000 water and
                     sewer revenue bonds, Series 2007
 
TABLE III: CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-19-1964   Authorizing condemnation of land owned by Joe W. and Olon
                     Jones for construction of water and sewer facilities
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-16-1957   Accepting dedication of portions of Lynch Street and
                     Kentucky Avenue as public ways
A-25     12-16-1968  Accepting dedication of streets, sidewalks, water mains,
                     storm and sanitary sewers in Clarksdale Court area
-        12-2-1991   Establishing Argo Avenue
-        10-20-1997  Adopting Panther Way
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Dawson Springs Water and Sewer System easement on
-        4-2-1979    all public ways for purpose of constructing, maintaining
                     and the like water and sewer lines
                     Granting South Hopkins Water District an easement on all
-        11-19-1979  public ways for purpose of constructing, maintaining and
                     the like a trunk water line
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-21-1970   Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company for 20 years
-        11-11-1971  Providing for a gas franchise
240.0    7-18-1983   Providing for a cable television franchise
240.0    9-15-1986   Granting a cable television franchise to Horizon Tele-
                     Communications, Inc., for 15 years
-        5-7-1990    Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company for 20 years
                     Providing for the sale of a franchise and right to
-        10-21-1991  acquire, construct, install, lay, operate, maintain,
                     repair, remove and replace a gas system
-        10-23-1991  Accepting bids for natural gas franchise
-        12-4-1991   Granting a gas franchise to Western Kentucky Gas
-        3-25-2002   Granting a cable franchise
2010-01  2-16-2010   Creating an electric franchise; authorizing bidding
45-A2011 9-19-2011   Creating a 20-year natural gas franchise; authorizing
                     bidding
 
TABLE VII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Deed and conveyance dated 11- -1971, conveying all real
-        - -         estate and assets of the Rosedale Cemetery to Rosedale
                     Cemetery Inc., a non-profit corporation
 
TABLE VIII: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     8-7-   Abandonment of tract shown in plats of record in deed book 42, pages 308
      1939   and 309, and deed book 43, page 283, Hopkins County Court Clerk’s office
-     12-14- Closing the alley on the east side of Alexander Street
      1967
-     8-19-  Closing the alleys in the block bounded by North Main, Hall, Sycamore and
      1968   Keigan Streets
-     12-21- Closing a public way beginning at a point in the south right-of-way of
      1992   Kentucky Highway 109, said point being the northwest corner of Lot 81
      9-6-   Closing that roadway lying between Lot Nos. 7, 8, 14 and 15, and being on
-     1994   the southeast side of Lot Nos. 7 and 14 of Block H and northwest side of
             Lot Nos. 1 and 8 of Block I
-     2-21-  Amending Ord. passed 9-6-1994, which did not accurately portray the width
      1995   and distance of the roadway to be closed
-     9-16-  Closing a public way beginning at a point being the southeast corner of
      2002   Lot No. 8 to the Stanninger Park Addition
2012- 5-21-  Closing and abandoning a portion of an alley running parallel with Scott
01    2012   Street and Gilmour Street, to the north by Hayes Avenue and to the south
             by Holeman Avenue in Block N
 
TABLE IX: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                     insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds as
-        5-17-1993   set forth in the interlocal agreement to establish the
                     KMRMA and authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute
                     the interlocal agreement
-        2-18-1997   Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of Cities
                     Investment Pool Plus
                     Approving a lease for the financing of a public project in
                     a maximum principal amount not to exceed $50,000;
-        8-18-2008   providing for the payment and security of the lease;
                     directing the maintenance of the heretofore created
                     sinking fund as security for the lease; and authorizing
                     the execution of various documents related to such lease
2011-01  2-28-2011   Approving a lease for the financing of a public project;
                     creating a sinking fund; executing various documents
 
TABLE X: STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The roadway located within the West Hopkins Industrial
-        7-6-1999    Park between White Swan/Meta and Buckhorn Plat No. 2 be
                     named Eddie Beshear Drive
 
TABLE XI: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
-        4-26-2010   classification of certain land from C-3 (Central Business)
                     to R-3 (Multi-Family Residential)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
-        8-30-2012   classification on certain land from RU (Rural) to R-3
                     (Multi-Family Residential)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2023-09  6-23-2023   classification of a parcel of real estate located at 1370
                     Industrial Road from Neighborhood Business District (C-2)
                     to Residential District-3 (R-3)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2023-10  6-23-2023   classification of a parcel of real estate containing 5.53
                     acres located at 60 Industrial Road from Industrial to
                     Residential District-3 (R-3 Multi-Family)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2023-11  6-23-2023   classification of a parcel of real estate located at 907
                     East Walnut Street from Rural (RU) to Single Family
                     Residential-3 (R-3)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2023-12  6-23-2023   classification of a parcel of real estate located at 135
                     Water Street from Central Business District (C-3) to
                     Single Family Residential (R-3)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2023-13  6-23-2023   classification of a parcel of real estate located at 15 4-
                     H Camp Road from Single Family Residential-2 (R-2) to
                     Single Family Residential-3 (R-3)
                     Amending the zoning map; changing the zoning
2024-02  3-11-2024   classification of a parcel of real estate located at 100
                     Industrial Park Road from Industrial to Residential-3
                     (Multi-Family)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites         Code Section
6.050             32.48
13B               116.053
13B.080.          99.06
18A.225           114.03
41.240            33.48
41.240(4)         33.05;
                  33.44
42.450—42.495   33.04
45A               34.26
45A.343           33.72
45A.345—45A.460 33.70
45A.385           33.71
45A.460           33.73
56                34.26
61                32.21
61.805            155.04
61.805—61.850   99.08
61.810            39.076
61.823(2)—(4)   91.20
61.870            34.01
                  34.15;
                  34.26;
61.870—61.884   34.27;
                  39.073;
                  39.079;
                  39.080
61.878            34.01;
                  34.26
61.872(5)         34.17
61.872(6)         34.18
61.874(1) — (3) 34.22
61.874(3)         34.23
61.874(4)         34.23
61.874(5)         34.24
61.874(6)         34.25
61.878            34.01;
                  34.26
61.878(1)         34.26
61.880            34.19
61.880(1)         34.26
61.884            34.21
62.060            31.01
65.003(c)         39.003
65.120            Ch. 72
65.8801—65.8839 99.15
65.8828           99.08
65.8828(1)—(5)  99.08
65.8828(5)        99.08
65.8831           99.08
66.660            91.06
80.010—80.257   35.046
80.020—80.257   35.045
80.030            35.045;
                  35.047
80.040            35.045;
                  35.048
80.050            35.045;
                  35.049
80.060            35.050
81A               TSO I
81A.412           TSO I
82.082            39.003;
                  50.061
82.400            91.07
82.700(3)         99.02
82.700 et seq.    99.02;
                  99.08
82.700—82.725   99.02
83A               31.20
83A.010(5)        10.02
83A.010(6)        10.02
83A.030(1)        30.02
83A.040(1)        31.21
83A.040(2)        31.21
83A.040(2)(c)     31.21
83A.040(2)(d)     31.21
83A.040(3)        31.21
83A.040(4)        32.01
83A.040(5)        32.02
83A.040(6)        32.02;
                  31.21
83A.040(7)        31.21;
                  32.02
83A.040(8)        31.21;
                  32.02
83A.040(9)        31.03
83A.050           31.20
83A.060(1)        32.35
83A.060(2)        32.36
83A.060(3)        32.37
83A.060(4)        32.38
83A.060(5)        32.40
83A.060(6)        32.22
83A.060(7)        32.38
83A.060(8)        32.41;
                  32.42
83A.060(9)        32.43
83A.060(10)       32.44
83A.060(11)       32.45
83A.060(12), (13) 32.46
83A.060(14)       32.47
83A.060(15)       32.48
83A.065           10.99
83A.070           31.02
83A.075           31.02
83A.080           35.096;
                  39.004
83A.080(1)        31.35
83A.080(2)        31.03;
                  31.35
83A.080(3)        31.20
83A.080(4)        31.20
83A.085           31.36
83A.130(1)        30.01
83A.130(2)        30.02
83A.130(3)        31.21
83A.130(4)        31.21
83A.130(5)        32.20
83A.130(6)        32.39
83A.130(7)        31.21
83A.130(8)        31.21
83A.130(9)        31.21
83A.130(10)       31.21
83A.130(11)       32.03;
                  32.21
83A.130(12)       32.03
83A.130(13)       32.03
83A.175           32.02
91A.010           33.01
91A.010(8)        10.02
91A.020           33.02
91A.030           33.03
91A.040           33.04;
                  33.99
91A.050           33.04
91A.060           33.05
91A.080(2)        114.02
91A.080(3)        114.03
91A.080(8)        114.04;
                  114.05
91A.080(9)        114.04
91A.080(10)       114.03
91A.200           33.21
91A.210           33.20
91A.220           33.21
91A.230           33.22
91A.240           33.23
91A.250           33.24
91A.260           33.25
91A.270           33.26
91A.280           33.27
91A.290           33.28
97.120            35.127
97.100—97.240   35.127
100               151.01;
                  153.01
107               33.21
116—121         31.20
131.010(6)        114.04
131.190           34.26
132.285(1)        36.01
132.487           36.04
132.720           152.01
134.810           36.05
134.810(2)        36.05
134.810(3)        36.05
136               36.07
136.120           111.03
154               34.26
174.100           91.20
174.100(1)        91.21
174.100(2)        91.22
174.100(3)        91.23
174.100(4)        91.24
174.100(5)        91.25
178.290           91.06
183.132(1)        35.001
183.132(4)        35.001
183.132(5)        35.003
183.132(9)        35.003
183.132(16)       35.003
183.132(17)       35.004
183.132(18)       35.003
183.132(20)       35.003
183.132(21)       35.003
183.132 et seq.   35.001
183.132—183.138 35.002
183.133(1)        35.001
183.630—183.740 35.001
186A.145          72.27
186A.190          72.27
189.020           71.37
189.080           73.21
189.285           73.01
189.286(2)        73.24
189.286(3)        73.23
189.287           73.01
189.290           71.35
189.330(8)        71.02
189.338           70.20
189.390(4)        71.05
189.394           71.05
189.450(5)        72.03
189.450(6)        72.03
189.580           71.20
189.725           72.08
189.820           73.22
189.930           71.36
189.990(1)        72.99
189.990(2)        Ch. 74, Sch. I
189.993(8)        71.99
190.010(6)        99.12
190.010(11)       99.12
198B.070          150.03
198B.990(1)       150.99
218B.130(2)       130.03
219.320—219.991 152.04
226.010           112.01
226.020           112.02
226.030           112.07
226.040           112.03
226.050           112.04
226.060           112.08
226.070           112.03
226.080           112.05
226.090           112.06
226.100           112.08
226.990(1)        112.99
226.990(3)        112.99
227.700           93.01
227.702           93.01
227.704           93.01
227.706           93.01
227.708           93.01
227.710           93.02
227.715           93.03
227.715(3) — (6)93.03
227.720           93.04
227.730           93.05
227.750           93.06
227.990(1)        150.99
227.990(4)        93.99
237.110           130.02
241               116.002;
                  116.040
241—244         116.053
241.060           116.023
241.060(2)        116.043
241.160           116.020;
                  116.076
241.170           116.020
                  116.022;
241.190           116.044;
                  116.076
241.200           116.057
242               116.002;
                  116.040; TSO I
242.070           116.044
242.185           116.044
242.185(4)        116.041;
                  116.044
                  111.03;
243               116.002;
                  116.040
243.070           116.041;
                  116.044
243.083           116.044
243.090           116.049
243.260           116.042
243.380           116.052
243.390           116.052
243.440           116.055
243.450           116.057
243.480           116.999
243.500           116.057
243.520           116.076
243.550           116.053;
                  116.057
243.560           116.053
243.610           116.005
243.620           116.055
243.630           116.050
243.640           116.050
243.650           116.050
243.660           116.050
244               116.002;
                  116.040
244.083           116.076
244.130           116.074
244.150           116.025
257.100           90.06
257.100(4)        90.01
258               90.23
281               72.26
281.010           99.12
281.0911          99.12
282.920—282.936 72.27
281.926           72.27
281.928           72.27
281.928(1)        72.27
281.932           72.27
304.17B-005       114.03
304.39-080        73.22
318.990           150.99
359.230           72.27
376.275           72.27
376.275(1)        72.27
376.275(2)        72.27
381.770 et seq.   99.08
                  92.01—
                  92.06;
                  92.20;
411.500—411.570 92.21;
                  92.35—
                  92.38;
                  92.99
                  32.43;
424               33.04;
                  33.24
424.220           33.04
436.600           90.04;
                  90.99
446.010(1)        10.02
446.010(2)        10.02
446.010(7)        10.02
446.010(8)        10.02
446.010(10)       10.02
446.010(11)       10.02
446.010(12)       10.02
446.010(13)       10.02
446.010(15)       10.02
446.010(16)       10.02
446.010(21)       10.02
446.010(23)       10.02
446.010(24)       10.02
446.010(26)       10.02
446.010(28)       10.02
446.010(29)       10.02
446.010(31)       10.02
446.010(34)       10.02
446.010(36)       10.02
446.010(40)       10.02
446.010(43)       10.02
446.010(44)       10.02
446.010(46)       10.02
446.010(52)       10.02
446.030           10.04
446.050           10.05
446.060           10.06
446.090           10.07
446.100           10.07
446.110           10.09
446.140           10.01
446.020(1)        10.02
446.020(2)        10.02
446.080(1)        10.02
446.080(3)        10.02
446.080(4)        10.02
525.125           90.03
525.130           90.03
534.040(2)(c)     10.99
610               130.01
610.180           130.01
610.200           130.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2014 Code
Prior Code     2014 Code
30.01          30.01
30.02          30.02
31.01          31.01
31.02          31.02
31.03          31.03
31.20          31.20
31.21          31.21
31.22          31.22
31.35          31.35
31.36          31.36
31.45          31.50
31.46          31.51
31.47          31.52
32.01          32.01
32.02          32.02
32.03          32.03
32.20          32.20
32.21          32.21
32.22          32.22
32.35          32.35
32.36          32.36
32.37          32.37
32.38          32.38
32.39          32.39
32.40          32.40
32.41          32.41
32.42          32.42
32.43          32.43
32.44          32.44
32.45          32.45
32.46          32.46
32.47          32.47
32.48          32.48
33.01          33.01
33.02          33.02
33.03          33.03
33.04          33.04;
               33.99
33.05          33.05
33.06          33.06
33.10          33.20
33.11          33.21
33.12          33.22
33.13          33.23
33.14          33.24
33.15          33.25
33.16          33.26
33.17          33.27
33.18          33.28
33.30          33.40
33.31          33.41
33.32          33.42
33.33          33.43
33.34          33.44
33.35          33.45
33.36          33.46
33.37          33.47
33.38          33.48
33.39          33.49
33.40          33.50
33.41          33.51
34.01          34.01
34.05          34.15
34.06          34.16
34.07          34.17
34.08          34.18
34.09          34.19
34.10          34.20
34.11          34.21
34.12          34.22
34.13          34.23
34.14          34.24
34.15          34.25
34.16          34.26
34.17          34.27
35.01          35.001
35.02          35.002
35.03          35.003
35.04          35.004
35.15          35.015
35.25          35.030
35.35          35.045
35.36          35.046
35.37          35.047
35.38          35.048
35.39          35.049
35.40          35.050
35.50          35.065
35.51          35.066
35.60          35.080
35.61          35.081
35.70          35.095
35.71          35.096
35.72          35.097
35.73          35.098
35.80          35.110
35.90          35.125
35.91          35.126
35.92          35.127
36.01          36.01
36.02          36.02
36.03          36.03
36.04          36.04
36.05          36.05
36.06          36.06
36.07          36.07
38.01          38.01
38.02          38.02
38.03          38.03
38.04          38.04
39.01          39.001
39.02          39.002
39.03          39.003
39.04          39.004
39.15          39.015
39.16          39.016
39.17          39.017
39.18          39.018
39.19          39.019
39.20          39.020
39.21          39.021
39.35          39.035
39.36          39.036
39.37          39.037
39.38          39.038
39.39          39.039
39.40          39.040
39.50          39.055
39.60          39.070
39.61          39.071
39.62          39.072
39.63          39.073
39.64          39.074
39.65          39.075
39.66          39.076
39.67          39.077
39.68          39.078
39.69          39.079
39.70          39.080
39.99          39.999
50.01          50.001
50.02          50.002
50.03          50.003
50.10          50.015
50.11          50.016
50.12          50.017
50.13          50.018
50.20          50.030
50.21          50.031
50.22          50.032
50.23          50.999
50.25          50.045
50.26          50.046
50.27          50.047
50.28          50.048
50.30          50.060
50.31          50.061
50.32          50.062
50.33          50.063
50.40          50.075
50.41          50.076
50.42          50.077
50.43          50.078
50.44          50.079
50.45          50.080
50.46          50.081
50.47          50.082
50.60          50.095
50.61          50.096
50.62          50.097
50.63          50.098
50.64          50.099
50.65          50.100
50.66          50.101
50.99          50.999
51.01          51.01
51.02          51.02
51.03          51.03
51.04          51.04
51.05          51.05
51.06          51.06
51.07          51.07
51.08          51.08
51.09          51.09
51.11          51.10
51.12          51.11
51.13          51.12
51.99          51.99
70.01          70.01
70.02          70.02
70.03          70.03
70.04          70.04
70.05          70.05
70.15          70.20
70.16          70.21
70.17          70.22
70.18          70.23
70.19          70.24
70.20          70.25
70.21          70.26
70.99          70.99
71.01          71.01
71.02          71.02
71.03          71.03
71.04          71.04
71.05          71.05
71.15          71.20
71.16          71.21
71.25          71.35
71.26          71.36
71.27          71.37
71.40          71.50
71.41          71.51
71.42          71.52
71.43          71.53
71.44          71.54
71.45          71.55
71.46          71.56
71.47          71.57
71.48          71.58
71.49          71.59
71.50          71.60
71.51          71.61
71.99          71.99
72.01          72.01
72.02          72.02
72.03          72.03
72.04          72.04
72.05          72.05
72.06          72.06
72.07          72.07
72.08          72.08
72.09          72.09
72.10          72.10
72.11          72.11
72.12          72.12
72.13          72.13
72.20          72.25
72.21          72.26
72.22          72.27
72.35          72.40
72.36          72.41
72.37          72.42
72.99          72.99
73.01          73.01
73.02          73.02
73.03          73.03
73.04          73.04
73.05          73.05
73.99          73.99
Ch. 74, Sch. I Ch. 74, Sch. I
90.01          90.01
90.02          90.02
90.03          90.03
90.04          90.04
90.05          90.05
90.06          90.06
90.07          90.07
90.08          90.08
90.15          90.20
90.16          90.21
90.17          90.22
90.18          90.23
90.19          90.24
90.99          90.99
91.01          91.01
91.02          91.02
91.03          91.03
91.04          91.04
91.05          91.05
91.06          91.06
91.07          91.07
91.15          91.20
91.16          91.21
91.17          91.22
91.18          91.23
91.19          91.24
91.20          91.25
91.30          91.40
91.31          91.41
91.32          91.42
91.33          91.43
91.99          91.99
92.01          92.01
92.02          92.02
92.03          92.03
92.04          92.04
92.05          92.05
92.06          92.06
92.15          92.20
92.16          92.21
92.25          92.35
92.26          92.36
92.27          92.37
92.28          92.38
92.99          92.99
93.01          93.01
93.02          93.02
93.03          93.03
93.04          93.04
93.05          93.05
93.06          93.06
93.20          93.20
93.21          93.21
93.22          93.22
93.99          93.99
94.01          94.01
94.02          94.02
94.03          94.03
94.04          94.04
94.05          94.05
94.99          94.99
95.01          95.01
95.02          95.02
95.03          95.03
95.04          95.04
95.05          95.05
95.06          95.06
95.07          95.07
95.08          95.08
95.09          95.09
95.20          95.20
95.99          95.99
96.01          96.01
96.02          96.02
96.99          96.99
97.01          97.01
97.02          97.02
97.03          97.03
97.04          97.04
97.05          97.05
97.06          97.06
97.07          97.07
97.08          97.08
97.09          97.09
97.10          97.10
97.11          97.11
97.12          97.12
97.13          97.13
97.14          97.14;
               97.99
110.01         110.01
110.02         110.02
110.03         110.03
110.01         110.04
110.05         110.05
110.06         110.06
110.07         110.07
110.08         110.08
110.09         110.09
110.10         110.10
110.11         110.11
110.12         110.12
110.13         110.13
110.14         110.14
110.15         110.15
110.16         110.16
110.17         110.17
110.99         110.99
111.01         111.01
111.02         111.02
111.03         111.03
111.04         111.04
111.05         111.05
111.06         111.06
111.07         111.07
111.08         111.08
111.09         111.09
111.10         111.10
111.11         111.11
111.12         111.12
111.99         111.99
113.01         113.01
113.02         113.02
113.03         113.03
113.04         113.04
113.05         113.05
113.06         113.06
113.07         113.07
113.08         113.08
113.09         113.09
113.99         113.99
114.01         114.01
114.02         114.02
114.03         114.03
114.04         114.04
114.05         114.05
114.06         114.06
114.07         114.07
114.08         114.08
115.01         115.01
115.02         115.02
115.03         115.03
115.04         115.04
115.05         115.05
115.06         115.06
116.001        116.001
116.002        116.002
116.003        116.003
116.004        116.004
116.005        116.005
116.015        116.020
116.016        116.021
116.017        116.022
116.018        116.023
116.019        116.024
116.020        116.025
116.030        116.040
116.031        116.041
116.032        116.042
116.033        116.043
116.034        116.044
116.035        116.045
116.036        116.046
116.037        116.047
116.038        116.048
116.039        116.049
116.040        116.050
116.041        116.051
116.042        116.052
116.043        116.053
116.044        116.054
116.045        116.055
116.046        116.056
116.047        116.057
116.060        116.070
116.061        116.071
116.062        116.072
116.063        116.073
116.064        116.074
116.065        116.075
116.066        116.076
116.067        116.077
116.068        116.078
116.080        116.090
116.081        116.091
116.082        116.092
116.083        116.093
116.084        116.094
116.999        116.999
130.01         130.01
130.02         130.02
150.01         150.01
150.02         150.02
150.03         150.03
150.04         150.04
150.05         150.05
150.98         150.99
150.99         150.99
151.01         151.01
151.02         151.02
151.03         151.03
151.04         151.04
151.05         151.05
151.06         151.06
151.07         151.07
151.08         151.08
151.09         151.09
151.10         151.10
151.11         151.11
151.20         151.25
151.21         151.26
151.22         151.27
151.23         151.28
151.24         151.29
151.35         151.40
151.36         151.41
151.37         151.42
151.99         151.99
152.01         152.01
152.02         152.02
152.04         152.03
152.05         152.04
152.99         152.99
153.01         153.01
155.01         154.01
156.01         155.01
156.02         155.02
156.03         155.03
156.04         155.04
156.05         155.05
156.06         155.06
156.07         155.07
156.08         155.08
156.09         155.09
156.10         155.10
156.11         155.11
156.99         155.99
               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        3-19-1984   35.080;
                     35.081
2015-12  8-17-2015   TSO I
2015-13  8-17-2015   TSO I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         TSO VII
-         - -         TSO II
-         8-7-1939    TSO VIII
-         11-2-1942   50.015—
                      50.017
-         11-17-1952  71.05
-         10-5-1953   TSO II
-         10-5-1953   TSO II
-         10-5-1953   50.018
-         11-2-1953   50.045—
                      50.047
-         2-15-1954   71.05
-         3-19-1956   50.048
-         3-18-1957   TSO I
-         9-16-1957   TSO IV
-         6-6-1963    TSO II
-         11-7-1963   TSO I
-         11-7-1963   150.02
                      150.03—
-         12-5-1963   150.05;
                      150.99
-         1-23-1964   TSO II
-         2-19-1964   TSO III
-         3-19-1964   TSO I
-         4-9-1964    50.075—
                      50.082
-         10-25-1965  TSO I
-         4-13-1966   TSO I
-         6-24-1967   153.01
-         12-14-1967  TSO VIII
-         8-l9-1968   TSO VIII
A-25      12-16-1968  TSO IV
                      110.01;
                      110.02;
A-27      3-24-1969   110.04—
                      110.15;
                      110.99
-         7-21-1969   95.01—
                      95.09
-         8-18-1969   150.04
-         2-16-1970   110.03
-         9-21-1970   TSO VI
-         11-16-1970  110.04
-         11-11-1971  TSO VI
-         1-17-1972   51.07;
                      72.13
-         8-20-1973   51.01—
                      51.12
-         6-3-1974    50.097
-         5-16-1978   110.04;
                      110.08
-         4-2-1979    TSO V
                      50.095;
610.01    9-10-1979   50.097;
                      50.099;
                      50.100
-         11-19-1979  TSO V
-         1-21-1980   32.21
540.8     5-19-1980   72.06;
                      72.25
-         6-16-1980   153.01
-         8-13-1980   50.095
610.01    6-15-1981   50.095
-         2-16-1982   50.016
-         5-4-1982    TSO II
-         6-21-1982   90.22;
                      90.23
-         12-20-1982  33.06
-         1-3-1983    37.01
240.0     7-18-1983   TSO VI
6-18-84-1 6-18-1984   31.36
6-18-84-2 6-18-1984   35.066
350.0     8-20-1984   38.01—
                      38.04
-         9-4-1984    90.21
A-63      10-6-1984   92.20;
                      92.21
-         10-29-1984  114.01—
                      114.05
240.0     9-15-1986   TSO VI
-         11-3-1986   51.09
-         7-27-1987   51.11;
                      114.03
-         11-2-1987   51.11;
                      92.03
-         4-18-1988   51.07
-         12-5-1988   91.07
-         12-19-1988  92.35—
                      92.38
-         1-24-1989   35.097
-         2-6-1989    110.16
-         3-6-1989    35.098
                      50.001—
                      50.003;
                      50.030—
-         3-6-1989    50.032;
                      50.096;
                      50.101;
                      50.999
                      152.01—
-         8-7-1989    152.04;
                      152.99
-         10-9-1989   50.098
-         4-16-1990   73.05;
                      73.99
-         5-7-1990    TSO VI
                      96.01;
-         9-17-1990   96.02;
                      96.99
-         10-21-1991  TSO VI
-         10-23-1991  TSO VI
-         12-2-1991   TSO IV
-         12-4-1991   TSO VI
35.70     6-2-1992    35.097
152       6-2-1992    152.02
51        6-17-1992   51.08—
                      51.11
-         10-5-1992   TSO I
-         10-5-1992   TSO I
-         12-21-1992  TSO VIII
-         5-17-1993   TSO IX
35.70     6-7-1993    35.097
240.0     11-4-1993   115.01—
                      115.06
-         9-6-1994    TSO VIII
                      39.001—
                      39.004;
                      39.015—
                      39.021;
-         11-28-1994  39.035—
                      39.040;
                      39.055;
                      39.070—
                      39.080;
                      39.999
-         2-21-1995   TSO VIII
51        5-15-1995   51.11
154       7-3-1995    154.01
-         9-5-1995    50.060—
                      50.063
                      97.01—
-         1-2-1996    97.14;
                      97.99
                      151.01—
                      151.11;
                      151.25—
151       3-18-1996   151.29;
                      151.40—
                      151.42;
                      151.99
-         8-19-1996   35.110
                      155.01—
-         8-19-1996   155.11;
                      155.99
610.01    8-19-1996   50.095;
                      50.096
-         9-3-1996    36.07
-         12-2-1996   130.02
-         2-18-1997   TSO IX
-         9-2-1997    50.097
-         10-20-1997  TSO IV
-         3-2-1998    TSO I
-         4-6-1998    TSO I
-         12-21-1998  113.09
-         7-6-1999    TSO X
-         7-19-1999   95.20
                      155.02;
                      155.04;
-         8-9-1999    155.06;
                      155.07;
                      155.09—
                      155.11
-         2-5-2001    32.21
                      51.08;
51        7-11-2001   51.09;
                      51.11
-         3-25-2002   TSO VI
-         4-15-2002   35.125—
                      35.127
610.01    5-1-2002    50.095
-         7-9-2002    TSO II
-         9-16-2002   TSO VIII
-         4-7-2004    TSO II
-         11-15-2004  93.22;
                      93.99
                      114.02;
2005-01   1-24-2005   114.03;
                      114.06;
                      114.07
50        4-18-2005   50.095;
                      50.096
152       4-18-2005   152.02
51        6-24-2005   51.11
                      90.01;
                      90.07;
-         9-11-2006   90.08;
                      90.24;
                      90.99
50        11-27-2006  50.095;
                      50.096
-         6-18-2007   114.08
                      116.001—
                      116.005;
                      116.020—
                      116.025;
                      116.040—
2008-01   3-26-2008   116.057;
                      116.070—
                      116.078;
                      116.090—
                      116.094;
                      116.999
-         8-18-2008   TSO IX
                      111.01—
07-08     9-16-2008   111.12;
                      111.99
50        6-2-2009    50.095;
                      50.096
-         2-16-2010   31.50
2010-01   2-16-2010   TSO VI
-         4-26-2010   TSO XI
-         1-24-2011   50.016
2011-01   2-28-2011   TSO IX
                      114.02;
2011-02   3-15-2011   114.03;
                      114.06;
                      114.07
-         6-28-2011   32.21
51        6-28-2011   51.11
45-A2011  9-19-2011   TSO VI
-         3-19-2012   37.01
                      73.20—
2011-2    3-19-2012   73.24;
                      73.99
2012-01   5-21-2012   TSO VIII
-         8-30-2012   TSO XI
                      99.01—
                      99.13;
92A       8-19-2013   99.25—
                      99.29;
                      99.99
                      98.01—
92B       9-16-2013   98.04;
                      98.99
2014-01   2-20-2014   116.058
50        5-19-2014   50.095;
                      50.096
--        6-18-2015   37.01
                      99.02,
                      99.04,
                      99.08,
2016-02   7-14-2016   99.10,
                      99.12,
                      99.14—
                      99.16
2016-03   9-23-2016   130.02
50        6-12-2017   50.095,
                      50.096
2017-02   9-27-2017   152.02
- -       8-13-2018   116.047,
                      116.071
2018-06   9-24-2018   50.095,
                      50.096
2019-01   4-8-2019     
                      32.21
2019-06   10-15-2019  154.01
2019-07   10-15-2019  99.12
2019-08   10-15-2019  99.12
2019-09   10-15-2019  99.08
                      73.20—
2020-06   9-17-2020   73.24,
                      73.99
2021-03   7-22-2021   51.11
2022-01   2-10-2022   152.02
2022-02   5-10-2022   33.70—
                      33.73
2022-03   6-27-2022   50.095,
                      50.096
2022-04   6-27-2022   31.37
2023-01   3-21-2023   110.03
                      99.02,
                      99.04,
                      99.06—
2023-03   5-16-2023   99.10,
                      99.12,
                      99.13,
                      99.27
                      99.08,
2023-04   5-16-2023   99.10,
                      99.14—
                      99.16
2023-05   6-23-2023   50.097
2023-06   6-23-2023   50.095,
                      50.096
2023-07   6-23-2023   50.100
2023-08   6-23-2023   72.04
2023-09   6-23-2023   TSO XI
2023-10   6-23-2023   TSO XI
2023-11   6-23-2023   TSO XI
2023-12   6-23-2023   TSO XI
2023-13   6-23-2023   TSO XI
2023-16   8-15-2023   31.35
2024-01   3-11-2024   154.01
2024-02   3-11-2024   TSO XI
2024-04   6-18-2024   111.03
2024-05   9-17-2024   130.03
2025-01   2-24-2025   51.09
2025-04   7-22-2025   50.095,
                      50.096
2025-05   7-22-2025   35.096—
                      35.098
2025-06   7-22-2025   70.03
                     
 
