CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 7-2024, passed 2-6-25; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor      Bonnie Jung
City Council
Patti Eubanks
Bill Middleton
Matthew Nelson
Jeff Riddle
Neil Sandefur
Denise Scarpellini
City Clerk Clay Porter
Treasurer  Holly Sanford
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ADOPTING ORDINANCE 2 SERIES 1997
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; AND PROVIDING WHEN THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY:
   SECTION 1.    That the Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 10 to 80,
and Tables 1 to 9, each inclusive, be and is hereby adopted and enacted as the
"Code of Ordinances of Douglass Hills, Kentucky," and shall be treated and
considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede
all other general and permanent ordinances of the City passed on or before
October 14, 1996, to the extent provided in Section 2 hereof.
   SECTION 2.    That all provisions of such Code shall be in full force and
effect from and after the  10th  day of February, 1997, and all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature of the City of Douglass Hills, enacted on final
passage on or before October 14, 1996, and not included in such Code or
recognized and continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from
and after the  10th  day of February, 1997, except as hereinafter provided.
   SECTION 3.   That the repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not
affect the following:
   (A)    Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this ordinance;
   (B)    Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
   (C)    Any ordinance authorizing the execution of agreements with other
governments or agencies;
   (D)    Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City or
established personnel regulations;
   (E)    Any appropriation ordinance;
   (F)    Any right of franchise granted to any person, firm, or corporation;
   (G)    Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in
the City;
   (H)    Any ordinance establishing any official position of the City which is
not specifically referred to in the Code;
   (I)    Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor;
   (J)    Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
City, or providing regulations for the same;
   (K)    Any ordinance annexing property to the City;
   (L)    Any zoning ordinance or amendment thereto, except as inconsistent
with the said code provisions;
   (M)    Any subdivision ordinance or amendment thereto;
   (N)    Any taxation ordinance;
   (O)    Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations,
prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way
traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, or dealing with
parking meters, parking meter zones or flow of traffic generally, not
inconsistent with such Code;
   (P)    Any ordinance dealing with the electric, water, sewer or sewage
disposal utilities of the City or fixing charges for use of such facilities;
   (Q)    Any ordinance enacted after October 14, 1996; nor shall such repeal
be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance which is repealed
by this ordinance.
   SECTION 4.   That a copy of said Code of Ordinances as adopted shall be
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available to public
inspection in said office.
   SECTION 5.   That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This ordinance to be
published according to law.
   Date of First Reading:             12-09-96
   Date of Second Reading and Enactment:    02-10-97
   Date of Publication:                                   
                        /s/ Warren C. Walker
                        Mayor
ATTEST:    /s/ Faye Tanner
      City Clerk
ADOPTING ORDINANCE NUMBER 6, SERIES 1998
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1998 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Douglass
Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Douglass
Hills, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1998 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Douglass Hills, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading    9-17-98
Date of Second Reading    10-12-98  
                         /s/ Warren C. Walker
                        Mayor
/s/ Faye Tanner
City Clerk
ADOPTING ORDINANCE NUMBER 5, SERIES 1999
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1999 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Douglass
Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the adoption of the 1998 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Douglass
Hills, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1999 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Douglass Hills, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading       08-09-99
Date of Second Reading       09-13-99  
                   /s/ Warren C. Walker
                  Mayor
/s/ Faye Tanner
City Clerk
ADOPTING ORDINANCE NUMBER 7, SERIES 2001
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Douglass
Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the adoption of the 1999 S-2 Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Douglass
Hills, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Douglass Hills, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading   11-12-01
Date of Second Reading   12-10-01
       /s/ Warren C. Walker        
      Mayor
/s/ Faye Tanner  
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1, SERIES 2005
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Douglass Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the 2001 S-3 Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Douglass
Hills, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2004 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Douglass Hills, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading    January 10, 2005
Date of Second Reading    February 14, 2005  
                   /s/ Sherl Fetter
                  Mayor
/s/ Henrietta Barker
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 7, SERIES 2010
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2010 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Douglass Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Douglass Hills, Commonwealth
of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2010 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Douglass Hills, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, and approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 5th day of August, 2010.
Passed on First Reading    July 1, 2010
Adopted on Second Reading    August 5, 2010  
Signed by Mayor       August 5, 2010  
Published in Paper       August, 2010  
Recorded by Clerk       August, 2010  
                         /s/ Bill Lile
                        Mayor
/s/ Rheba Roten
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1, SERIES 2017
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2017, supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Douglass Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Douglass Hills:
   SECTION 1. That the 2017, supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Douglass Hills, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from
and after its date of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
First Reading          January 5, 2017
Second Reading       February 2, 2017
Passed and Approved       February 2, 2017  
                           Bonnie Jung /s/
                           Mayor
ATTEST:
Rheba Roten /s/
City Clerk                     Those in Favor:    6
                        Opposed:       0
ORDINANCE NO. 7, SERIES 2020
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF DOUGLASS HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2020 supplement to the code of ordinances of the City of Douglass
Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the code of ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Douglass Hills:
   SECTION 1. That the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Douglass Hills, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from
and after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this  5th  day of  November , 2020
Passed on First Reading:    10/15/2020
Adopted on Second Reading:    11/5/2020                      
Signed by Mayor:       11/5/2020                      
Published in the Paper:    11/9/2020                      
Recorded by Clerk:       11/5/2020                      
ATTEST:
Clay T. Porter /s/
Clerk                                                                   Bonnie
Jung /s/
                           Mayor
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
10.001   Code designation
   
10.002   Definitions
   
10.003   Rules of construction
   
10.004   Signatures and writings
   
10.005   Severability of parts of code
   
10.006   Rights or liability accrued before repeal of ordinance
   
10.007   Ordinances affected by codification
   
10.008   Conflicting sections or provisions
   
10.009   Omissions or errors
   
10.010   Historical references
   
10.011   Titles, articles, division, and section headings
   
10.012   References to code
   
10.999   General penalty
§ 10.001 CODE DESIGNATION
   All ordinances contained within this and the following chapters that are of
a general and permanent nature and as revised, codified, rearranged,
renumbered, and consolidated here shall be known and designated as the "The
Code of the City of Douglass Hills, Kentucky", and may be cited as such. This
codification may also be known as "codified ordinances", the "code" or
"Douglass Hills code". Code title, chapter, and section headings or catch lines
shall not be construed as any part of the law contained herein.
§ 10.002 DEFINITIONS
   In the construction of this code and for purposes of this code, the
following definitions shall apply, unless inconsistent with the text or unless
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court in the Commonwealth.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   “AND” or “OR.” The word “and” may be read as “or” and “or” may be read as
“and,” where the context requires it.
   “CITY” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code, the City of Douglass
Hills, located in Jefferson County; except as otherwise provided.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   “COMMISSIONER.” An appointed member of the Recreational Facilities
Corporation, Inc.
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL” or “CITY COUNCIL.” The city legislative body of Douglass Hills,
Kentucky.
   “COMPUTATION OF TIME.” The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day
is a Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded. When the period of time
prescribed or allowed is seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
   “COUNTY.” Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   “DIRECTORS.” Members of the Board of Directors of Recreational Facilities,
Inc.
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited
partnerships, or limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or
formed by authority of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010 (7))
   “FEDERAL.” The United States.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   “KRS.” The Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A member of City Council. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of the City Council, which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money. (KRS 83A.010(11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real property.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal and other property.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years in which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.” An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the
legislative body on some matter of ministerial business which has come before
the body. (While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal order,
involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution is a less formal mechanism
for dealing with matters of a special or temporary character.)
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory.
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curbline, or the lateral
lines of a roadway or street where there is no curb and the adjacent property
line and intended for use by pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches to them and all other public thoroughfares
within the city. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or path, unless
the sidewalk or path is so excluded, or unless such construction is
inconsistent with the intent of the City Council.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   (A)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   (B)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only may extend and be
applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Singular/Plural. A word importing the singular number only may extend
and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one (1) person or
thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to
one (1) person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Terms/Technical Terms. All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law, shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
   (F)   Officers/Agents of City. All officers, agents, employees and other
persons, together with all things and places referred to in this code, unless a
different intention appears, shall be construed to mean the officers, agents,
employees and other persons, things and places situated in the city or employed
by or pertaining to the city.
   (G)   Acts Prohibited. All acts prohibited or punishable under this code or
under any particular ordinance codified here, unless otherwise indicated, shall
be construed to refer to those acts when committed or occurring within the city
limits or in other places over which the police may have jurisdiction or
authority by state law.
§ 10.004 SIGNATURES AND WRITINGS
   (A)   Any writing required to be signed under this code shall only be deemed
to be signed when a signature is subscribed at the end or closing of the
writing.
(KRS 446.060(1))
   (B)   Any writing required under the provisions of the code shall include
printing or any other mode of representing words and letters so long as the
language used in the writing is the English language.
§ 10.005 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.006 RIGHTS OR LIABILITY ACCRUED BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings hereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the part affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.007 ORDINANCES AFFECTED BY CODIFICATION
   (A)   From and after its adoption by City Council and its effective date,
this code shall contain all provisions of a general and permanent nature
pertaining to the titles and subjects included herein. All prior ordinances or
codes pertaining to the titles or subjects contained herein shall be deemed
repealed.
   (B)   All standard codes, rules and regulations and other subject matter
adopted by ordinance and herein incorporated by reference, together with any
amendments as made from time to time, and future incorporations by reference
shall be construed to have full force and effect as if set out herein; and a
copy of such codes, rules and regulations shall be kept on file in the office
of City Clerk, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and any other
ordinances not pertaining to titles and subjects included in this code shall
remain in full force and effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (D)   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer, employee, or agent to make additional
ordinances, rules or regulations for the purposes of carrying out the intent of
the ordinance; all ordinances, rules and regulations of a similar nature
serving the same purpose, effected prior to the adoption of this code and not
inconsistent with this code, shall remain in effect.
§ 10.008 CONFLICTING SECTIONS OR PROVISIONS
   If any of the provisions, codes, chapters, articles, divisions or sections
of this code conflict with or contradict another provision, code, chapter,
article, division or section; the provisions with the latest date of enactment
or adoption shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same date of
enactment or adoption, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent
with the meaning or legal effect of the subject matter when taken as a whole.
§ 10.009 OMISSIONS OR ERRORS
   If an error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word or
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intent of the
provisions, or the use of a word for which a meaning within the intent of the
provision cannot be defined, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended, the error shall be corrected by substituting a
correct spelling of the word or words, or adding the omitted word or words, or
deleting the word or words found to be in error to conform with the original
intent of the provision. The provision shall have the same force and effect as
though the correct words were originally contained within the text of this
code. No alteration shall be made if any question exists regarding the nature
or extent of the error.
§ 10.010 HISTORICAL REFERENCES
   (A)   All reference information contained within this code is intended for
the use of the reader; however, it shall not be construed to be a part of any
ordinance or amendment to any ordinance codified here.
   (B)   As a historical reference to the sections contained within this code,
ordinance information before the passage of ordinance number 7-1990 adopted on
July 9, 1990 was extracted from the code originally adopted on July 9, 1990 and
as amended and supplemented from time to time. Wherever possible, ordinance
historical data has been included as originally codified or contained within
the 1990 code; but, when section or provision history could not be determined
from the 1990 code, a section reference to the code has been added. Example:
(1990 code)
   (C)   All amendments to ordinances are listed following previous ordinance
information as an amendment to the previous ordinance. Example: (Ord. No. 5-89,
2-21-89; Amd. Ord. No. 6-90, 3-1-90)
   (D)   If a cite to the Kentucky Revised Statutes is included in the history
of a provision or section, this indicates that the text of the section reads
word-for-word from the statutes. Example: (KRS 446.010). If a cite from the
Kentucky Revised Statutes is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section, this indicates that additional information may be found
within the referenced section of the statutes.
   (E)   Cross references which are found at the end of any provision or
section refer to another section of the code where additional information about
a particular subject may be found.
   (F)   Where additional information of some nature is required or provided
that cannot otherwise be explained or corrected, or when a question of
completeness or correction has arisen in the publication of this code that
cannot otherwise be completed or corrected before publication of this code; a
footnote, numbered and set out at the end of the page, shall provide
explanation of the additional information, correction, or question.
   (G)   Sections with no historical reference or data indicate that the
section is originally enacted by the adoption of this code.
§ 10.011 TITLES, ARTICLES, DIVISION, AND SECTION HEADINGS
   The catchlines or headings of all titles, articles, divisions, and sections
or other provisions of this code printed in italicized type, bold type, or
which are capitalized are intended as words to indicate the contents of the
sections and shall not be deemed to be titles of the sections, nor a part of
the sections, unless so provided by the ordinance from which the sections were
derived.
§ 10.012 REFERENCES TO CODE
   All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subchapters, or sections
contained within the provisions of this code are to the chapters, articles,
divisions, subchapters, or sections of this code, unless otherwise specified.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY
   When any person, firm, or corporation is convicted of a violation of any
provision of this code and no penalty is otherwise provided, the person, firm,
or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined an
amount not to exceed two hundred fifty ($250.00) dollars.
TITLE 2: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION/ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 20   ELECTED OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 21   NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 22   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
CHAPTER 23   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 24   PUBLIC RECORDS
CHAPTER 25   PUBLIC MEETINGS
CHAPTER 26   ETHICS CODE
CHAPTER 27   INVESTMENT POLICY
CHAPTER 20: ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
20.001   Organization
   
20.002   Non-partisan election authorized
   
20.003   Indemnification of elected officials
   
20.004   Compensation
   
20.005   Mayor, presiding officer to appoint committees
   
20.006   City officials incentive program
ARTICLE II MAYOR
   
20.100   Executive authority
   
20.101   Election
   
20.102   Term
   
20.103   Qualifications
   
20.104   Vacancy
   
20.105   Resignation
   
20.106   Duties
   
20.107   Delegation of authority
ARTICLE III CITY COUNCIL
Division 1. General Provisions
   
20.200   Composition
   
20.201   Election
   
20.202   Term
   
20.203   Qualifications
   
20.204   Vacancies
   
20.205   Resignation
   
20.206   Removal
   
20.208   Immunity
   
20.209   Duties
Division 2. Meetings
   
20.250   Regular meetings
   
20.251   Special meetings
   
20.252   Presiding officer
   
20.253   Quorum
   
20.254   Agenda
   
20.255   Rules of order
   
20.256   Ordinances
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 20.001 ORGANIZATION
   (A)   The government of the city shall be administered in the manner
prescribed by KRS Chapter 83A, other applicable provisions of the Constitution
and statutes, and the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.020, the city is governed by the Mayor-Council
form of government as set forth in KRS 83A.130.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
   (C)   The government shall be composed of an elected executive who shall be
called the Mayor and an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and of such other officers and employees as may be provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
   (D)   The City Council shall be composed of six (6) members.
(KRS 83A.030, 83A.130)
                          
Statutory reference:
    Organization structure, KRS 83A.020
   Legislative body size, KRS 83A.030
§ 20.002 NON-PARTISAN ELECTION AUTHORIZED
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by the provisions of KRS
Chapters 116 to 121, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   All officers of the city shall be elected according to the non-
partisan city election laws set out in this section and pursuant to KRS
83A.045.
(Ord. No. 3-1981, 2- -81; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 5-1993,
8-9-93)
      (1)   There shall be no primary election for the nomination of candidates
to city office regardless of the number of candidates running for each office.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, 8-9-93)
      (2)   All candidates shall file their nomination papers with the County
Clerk not earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November
of the year preceding the year in which the office with appear on the ballot
and not later than the second Tuesday in August before the day fixed by KRS
Chapter 118 for holding a regular election for the office.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, 8-9-93; Amd. Ord. No. 3-2004, 4-12-04)
      (3)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4 p.m. local
time when filed on the last day on which the papers are permitted to be filed.
      (4)   The election of candidates to city office shall be governed by the
provisions of KRS 83A.045(2), 83A.175(2) to (6), and KRS Chapters 116 to 121.
      (5)   The number of candidates equal to the number of city offices to be
filled who receive the highest number of votes cast in the regular election for
each city office shall be elected.
      (6)   If a vacancy occurs in a candidacy for city office after the
expiration of time for filing nomination papers due to death, incapacity, or
withdrawal of a candidate, or if there are fewer candidates than there are
offices to be filled, the vacancy in candidacy shall be filled in the manner
prescribed in KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(6).
                          
Statutory reference:
   Elections governed by, KRS 83A.043
   Non-partisan election authorized, KRS 83A.045
§ 20.003 INDEMNIFICATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
   (A)   The city shall provide for the defense of any elected official in any
action in tort arising out of an act or omission occurring within the scope of
his office.
   (B)   The city shall pay any judgement based thereon or any compromise or
settlement of any such action in tort except as provided in subsection (C).
   (C)   The city may refuse to pay a judgment or settlement in any action
against an elected official, or if the city pays any claim or judgment against
any elected official pursuant to subsection (B), it may recover against the
official the amount of the payment and the cost to defend it:
      (1)   If the elected official failed to act because of fraud, malice, or
corruption;
      (2)   If the action was outside the apparent scope of his duties; or
      (3)   If the elected official willfully refused to assist in the defense
or the cause of action in good faith.
(Ord. No. 2-1986, 5-12-86)
§ 20.004 COMPENSATION
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year the officer is
elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
(KRS 83A.070)
   (B)   Equating compensation with purchasing power of dollar:
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and members of the
City Council with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local
Government shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the
annual increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year
by using 1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be
paid at a rate no greater than twelve thousand ($12,000) dollars per annum and
the Mayor in cities other than the first class and legislative body members
shall be paid at a rate no greater than seven thousand two hundred ($7,200)
dollars per annum.
      (2)   The City Council of the city shall set the compensation of the
officer in accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that
stipulated by the Department for Local Government.
                          
Cross reference:
   Setting salary of Mayor and Council, see Tables of Special Ordinances,
Table 6.
§ 20.005 MAYOR, PRESIDING OFFICER TO APPOINT COMMITTEES
   All committees of Council shall be appointed by the Mayor or the presiding
officer, if different than the Mayor.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
§ 20.006 CITY OFFICIALS INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the terms below shall have the
following meanings:
      "ADMINISTRATOR." The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training
Center.
      "BASE TRAINING INCENTIVE AMOUNT." Three hundred ($300.00) dollars.
      "EXCESS HOURS." Credit hours earned beyond fifteen (15) during a single
calendar year.
      "QUALIFYING COURSE." Any training, seminar, educational or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials.
      "TRAINING INCENTIVE MULTIPLIER." A number of one (1) to four (4) that is
determined by the number of training units consecutively earned by the city
official and is used to calculate the final training incentive amount to be
paid to a city official participating in the city officials training program.
      "TRAINING UNIT." Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation
in qualifying courses during a calendar year.
   (B)   Adoption of a city officials training program; application. In
accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified in KRS
Chapter 64, the City of Douglass Hills hereby adopts and establishes a city
officials training program to make available incentive payments as specified by
this section to the elected city officials, including the Mayor and all members
of the City Council, for obtaining education and training as required under the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Incentive payment amount; required training participation.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the city officials
training program shall receive payment of three hundred ($300.00) dollars for
each calendar year that he or she completes a training unit. Provided that, the
city official shall not be awarded more than one (1) training unit per calendar
year and shall not receive payment in any single calendar year for the
accumulation of more than four (4) training units.
      (2)   The final training incentive payment to be received by a city
official for a specific calendar year shall be determined by the multiplying
the base training incentive amount by the training incentive multiplier. The
training incentive multiplier is determined by the number of training units
consecutively earned by the city official and shall not exceed four (4). The
total training incentive payment shall be made to the city official presenting
proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within thirty (30)
days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
      (3)   The city official may continue to receive the maximum training
incentive payment of the base training incentive amount multiplied by the
training incentive multiplier of four (4) for each year following the fourth
year, provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each
subsequent calendar year.
      (4)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payment for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years,
which shall result in the training incentive multiplier being reset to one (1)
in the following calendar year.
      (5)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten (10) hours to apply to the
earning of the training unit in the following calendar year.
   (D)   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses.
Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city's
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official's attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the Mayor.
Alternatively, and subject the constraints and appropriations established by
the city's annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official
for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon
presentation of proof to the Mayor that the official has received credit for
the course.
   (E)   Administration of city officials training program.
      (1)   The city officials training program for the City of Douglass Hills
shall be administered by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training
Center, which shall be responsible for approving courses as qualifying under
the terms of this ordinance, shall maintain records of attendance and
participation, and shall notify the city when a city official earns a training
unit and the applicable training incentive multiplier applicable to each city
official.
      (2)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying
courses by the administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory
duties of cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this section. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
      (3)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation
in a qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the
course name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient
proof of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator's opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
      (4)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within thirty (30) days of
the close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to
each participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and the applicable
training incentive multiplier. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a
copy of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier to the city in order to receive his or
her training incentive payment.
   (F)   Status of incentive payments.
      (1)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS
Chapter 337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement
System under KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting
maximum compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and
may be repealed or modified by the city at any time.
      (2)   The base training incentive payment amount established in this
section shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices
or any other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. No. 1-2023, 2-2-23)
ARTICLE II. MAYOR
§ 20.100 EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in a Mayor, who shall be
elected in accordance with the provisions for non-partisan elections set forth
in KRS 83A.170 and §
20.002 of this code.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
§ 20.101 ELECTION
   The Mayor shall be elected at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one (1) year prior to his or
her election.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
§ 20.102 TERM
   The term of office of the Mayor shall begin on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for four (4) years and until his or
her successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in
response to a vacancy and serves less than four (4) calendar years, then that
period of service shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of
office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
§ 20.103 QUALIFICATIONS
   The Mayor shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
§ 20.104 VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (A)   The City Council shall fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days.
      (B)   A Council Member may not vote for himself to fill the position of
Mayor.
      (C)   When voting to fill the vacancy created by a resignation of a
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
      (D)   The Council shall elect from among its members an individual to
preside over meetings of the Council during any vacancy in the office of Mayor.
(KRS 83A.040(2))
      (E)   If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of the Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
      (F)   If for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Mayor is not filled
within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.030(6))
§ 20.105 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of Mayor shall
occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation date is
tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.106 DUTIES 
   The Mayor shall have the following duties:
   (A)   The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council plan, city ordinances, and
orders, and all applicable statutes.
   (B)   The Mayor shall supervise all departments of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under his jurisdiction and shall
require each department to make reports to him as required by ordinance or as
he deems desirable.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint all officers and employees authorized by
ordinance, with approval of Council.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
   (D)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison related units of local government
respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
   (E)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
   (F)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (G)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Mayor may
participate in council proceedings, but shall not have a vote, except that he
may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
   (H)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city shall
be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive order.
   (I)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and
remove all city employees, except as tenure and terms of employment are
protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except for employees of the
Council.
   (J)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the functions
of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties of his
office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed in
accordance with §
20.107, provided that the Mayor shall not delegate the responsibility of
presiding at meetings of the Council and that approving ordinances or
promulgating administrative procedures may only be delegated to an elected
official. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may rescind any action taken
in his absence under this subsection within thirty (30) days of such action. If
for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties persists for
sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a
majority vote of the Council and the provisions of KRS 83A.040 shall apply.
                          
Cross reference:
   Mayor to delegate duties for certain officers, §
21.002 and §
21.201
   Mayor to appoint Recreation Commission members, §
22.101
   Mayor to act as official custodian of records, §
24.001
   Ethical conduct of Mayor required,
Chapter 26
   Nepotism prohibited in hiring officers, employees, §
26.300
   Mayor to appoint and remove Board of Ethics members, §
26.400
   Authorized to contract with provider for recycling, §
30.002
   Authorized agreement with sewer service, §
31.002
   To erect weight limit signs on streets, §
40.002
   To approve street numbering system, §§
41.004-
41.005
   To designate enforcement official for street numbering, §
41.006
   Mayor to appoint Zoning Committee, §
80.101
   Mayor to preside at public hearing held for zoning matters, §
80.103
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Mayor, 83A.130
§ 20.107 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and shall be kept in a permanent
file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
ARTICLE III. CITY COUNCIL
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 20.200 COMPOSITION
   The legislative power of the city is vested in a City Council, which shall
be composed of six (6) members, who shall be elected at-large in accordance
with the provisions for non-partisan elections set forth in KRS 83A.170 and §
20.002 of this code.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Legislative body size, KRS 83A.030
   Non-partisan elections, KRS 83A.170
Cross reference:
   Non-partisan election authorized, see §
20.002
§ 20.201 ELECTION
   Each City Councilmember shall be elected at-large at a regular election.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.202 TERM
   The term of office for a Councilmember shall begin on the first day of
January following his or her election and shall be for two (2) years.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.203 QUALIFICATIONS
   A Councilmember shall be least twenty-one (21) years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 20.204 VACANCIES
   (A)   If one (1) or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way that
one (1) or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within
thirty (30) days fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new
appointee reasonable notice of his or her selections as will enable him or her
to meet and act with the remaining members in making further appointments until
all vacancies are filled.
   (B)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in subsection (A).
   (C)   If for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Councilmember is not
filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly
fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the
same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
§ 20.205 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of council
member shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignations shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.206 REMOVAL
   (A)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, incapacity, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the City Council exclusive of any member to
be removed who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her removal.
   (B)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed shall have the right to
appeal to the Jefferson Circuit Court, and the appeal shall be on the record.
   (C)   No officer so removed shall be eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which he was originally elected.
(KRS 83A.040(9))
§ 20.207 IMMUNITY
   For anything said in debate, City Council members shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protection allowed members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
                          
Cross reference:
   Indemnification of elected officials, see §
20.003
§ 20.208 DUTIES
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the City Council. The Council shall not perform any executive functions
except those functions assigned to it by statute.
   (B)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding his performance of his official duties.
Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before submission to the
Council and to appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130)
   (E)   The City Council shall set compensation for officer's as follows:
      (1)   The City Council shall set compensation for elected officials in
accordance with §
20.004 of this code.
      (2)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.070 (2))
      (3)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees in
accordance with a personnel and pay classification plan which shall be adopted
by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
      (4)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the
city treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any
officer and employee.
      (5)   City Council may, by ordinance, establish the compensation for any
elective or appointive city office on a salaried or per diem basis.
(KRS 83A.070)
                          
Cross reference:
   City Council to prescribe duties of City Clerk by ordinance or order, §
21.002
   City Council to prescribe duties of City Treasurer, §
21.100
   City Council to prescribe duties of City Attorney, §
21.201
   City Council to approve Recreation Commission appointments, §
22.101
   City Council to approve Board of Ethics appointments, §
26.400
   Ethical conduct of City Council members required,
Chapter 26
   Setting procedures for collection of garbage fee, §
30.001
   Approving sewer agreement, §
31.002
   Promulgated street numbering regulations, §
41.001
   City Council to issue business license, §
60.001
   City Council to fix ad valorem tax rate,
Chapter 61
   City Council to receive annual reports from insurance companies subject to
license fee, §
63.005
   City Council to designate certification official for building regulations, §
70.003
   May approve certificate of approval renewal, §
70.008
   May allow variances to building regulations, §
70.012
   May allow variances to square foot restrictions, §
80.003
   Zoning committee to be appointed from, §
80.101
   City Council to decide on zoning matters, hold hearing; §§
80.102-
80.105
   Ethical conduct in zoning matters required, §
80.106
Division 2. Meetings
§ 20.250 REGULAR MEETINGS
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting each month on the first
Thursday of each month with the meetings to convene at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   The meetings shall be held at the City Offices located on 219 Moser
Road, Louisville, KY 40223.
(Ord. No. 1-1976, 1-5-76; Amd. Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981,
4-3-81 ; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1986, 2-10-86; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2009, 8-24-09; Amd.
Ord. No. 2-2024, 2-1-24)
                          
Cross reference:
   Meetings to be open to public, exceptions,
Chapter 25
§ 20.251 SPECIAL MEETINGS
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon written
request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council shall
designate the purpose, the time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61. At a special meeting no business may be considered other than
that set forth in the designation of purpose.
                          
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, KRS 83A.130
Cross reference:
   Meetings to be open to public, exceptions,
Chapter 25
   Special meetings, §
25.103
§ 20.252 PRESIDING OFFICER
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the City Council. He shall
decide all questions of order and, in case of a tie, shall cast the deciding
vote. During sessions of the City Council, he shall have the same power to
enforce order and decorum and to punish for contempt that circuit judges have.
He may issue subpoenas, writs, and compulsory processes for the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books and papers before the City Council or any
of its committees, and enforce them by appropriate fines, forfeitures and
punishments, to be entered as an order upon the journal of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
                          
Statutory reference:
    Mayor to preside, KRS 83A.130(5)
Cross reference:
   Rules of order, §
20.255
§ 20.253 QUORUM
   (A)   A majority of the six (6) members of the City Council shall constitute
a quorum, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and may compel the
attendance of absent members in such a manner and under penalties as prescribed
by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
   (B)   A vote of the majority shall be sufficient to take action.
                          
Statutory reference:
   Majority to constitute quorum, KRS 83A.060
§ 20.254 AGENDA
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or
other matters to be submitted to the Council shall, at least thirty-two (32)
business hours prior to each council meeting, be delivered to the City Clerk.
Whereupon the City Clerk shall immediately arrange a list of such matters
according to the Order of Business and furnish each member of the Council, the
Mayor, and the City Attorney with a copy as far in advance of the meeting as
time for preparation will permit. None of the foregoing matters shall be
presented to the Council by administrative officials except those of an urgent
nature, and the same, when presented, shall have the written approval of the
Mayor before presentation.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
§ 20.255 RULES OF ORDER
   (A)   Business to be conducted orderly. The business of the City Council
shall be conducted in an orderly manner in accordance with such rules of
conduct as the City Council may establish by majority vote.
   (B)   Minutes of previous meeting to be read; exceptions. At each regular
meeting of the City Council, the minutes of the proceedings of the previous
regular meeting and of all intervening special meetings shall be publicly read,
corrected, and approved, signed by the presiding officer and attested by the
Clerk. The minutes may be approved without reading if the Clerk has previously
furnished each member with a synopsis and if no member of the Council has
requested a reading of the minutes of a council meeting.
   (C)   Vote. The vote on all questions coming before the City Council shall
be by voice vote except that the roll shall be called if any member requests
it. The passage of an ordinance shall be by roll call vote and the vote of each
member of the City Council shall be entered on the official record of the
meeting.
   (D)   Motions, in general. Any member of the Council presiding instead of
the Mayor may move, second and debate from the chair, subject only to such
limitations of debate as are imposed by these rules on all members. Any member
presiding instead of the Mayor shall not be deprived of any of the rights and
privileges of a Councilmember by reason of his acting as the presiding officer.
   (E)   Member to be recognized before speaking.
      (1)   Any Councilmember desiring to speak shall address the chair and,
upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself to the
question under debate, avoiding all personalized and indecorous language.
      (2)   A Councilmember, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when
speaking unless it be to call him to order, or as herein otherwise provided. If
a member, while speaking, is called to order, he shall cease speaking until the
question of order is determined. If in order, he shall be permitted to proceed.
   (F)   Closing debate. The Councilmember moving the adoption of an ordinance,
municipal order or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
   (G)   Motions to reconsider any action. A motion to reconsider any action
taken by the Council may be made only on the day the action was taken. It may
be made either immediately during the same session, or at a recessed or
adjourned session. The motion must be made by one of the prevailing side, but
may be seconded by any member, and may be made at any time and have precedence
over all other motions. While a member has the floor, the motion shall be
debatable. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the
Council from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent
meeting of the Council.
   (H)   Members' reasons for position may be recorded in minutes. Any
Councilmember shall have the right to have the reasons for his dissent from,
support of, or protest against, any action of the Council entered on the
minutes.
   (I)   Addressing City Council during a meeting.
      (1)   Any person desiring to address the Council shall first secure the
permission of the presiding officer.
      (2)   Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks or
becoming boisterous while addressing the Council shall be forthwith, by the
presiding officer, barred from further audience before the Council unless
permission to continue is granted by a majority vote of the Council.
      (3)   Any interested parties or their authorized representatives may
address the Council by written communications in regard to matters then under
discussion, and the communications shall be read by the Clerk at the next
regular meeting unless objected to by a majority of the Council.
      (4)   Any taxpayer or resident of the city, or their authorized legal
representative, may address the Council by oral communications on any matter
concerning the city's business or any matter over which the Council has control
provided, however, that preference shall be given to those persons who have
notified the City Clerk in advance of their desire to speak in order that the
same may appear on the agenda of the Council.
      (5)    Any interested person or his authorized representative may address
the Council by reading of protests, petitions or communications relating to
zoning, sewer and street proceedings, hearings on protests, appeals, and
petitions or similar matters.
   (J)   Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and
decided without debate.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Meetings, KRS 83A.130
Cross reference:
   Ordinances, §
20.256
   Public meetings,
Chapter 25
§ 20.256 ORDINANCES 
   (A)   Title. Each ordinance shall embrace only one (1) subject and shall
have title that shall clearly state the subject.
   (B)   Enacting clause. Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and
shall have an enacting clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Douglass
Hills".
   (C)   Amendments. No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title
only, and ordinances to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or
section indicating any words being added by a single solid line drawn
underneath them, and any words being deleted by a single broken line drawn
through them.
   (D)   Reading. Except as provided in subsection (F) of this section, no
ordinance shall be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The
reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a
summary rather than the full text.
   (E)   Adoption by Reference. The City Council may adopt the provisions of
any local, statewide, or nationally recognized standard code and codification
of entire bodies of local legislation by an ordinance that identifies the
subject matter by title, source, and date and incorporates the adopted
provisions by reference without setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies
the adopting ordinance and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
   (F)   Emergency. In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of
second reading and publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective
by naming and describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publications
requirements of subsection (H) of this section shall be compiled within ten
(10) days of the enactment of the emergency ordinance.
   (G)   Ordinances, municipal orders, resolutions and other matters or
subjects requiring action by Council. Ordinances, municipal orders, resolutions
and other matters or subjects requiring action by the Council must be
introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council except that the Mayor may
present ordinances, municipal orders, resolutions and other matters or subjects
to the Council and may assume sponsorship by moving that the ordinances,
municipal orders, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted.
(Ord. No. 9-1978, 8-14-78; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
   (H)   Permanent Record. Every action of the City Council shall be made a
part of the permanent records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the
vote of each member of the Council shall be entered on the official record of
each meeting. All ordinances adopted in the city shall, at the end of each
month, be indexed and maintained in the following manner:
      (1)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
      (2)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in a code of ordinances.
      (3)   At least once every five (5) years, the city shall cause all
ordinances in the composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for
consistency with the state law and with one another and to be revised to
eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
   (I)   Publication. Except as provided in subsection (F) of this section, no
ordinance shall be effective until published in full or in summary as
designated by the City Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance
in summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed
to practice law in the Commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes, or fees.
      (4)    Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include
a sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as, streets or
roads in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
   (J)   Signature required. All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be
submitted to the Mayor, who shall within ten (10) days after submission, either
approve the ordinance by affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning
it to the Council together with a statement of his objections. No ordinance
shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he fails to return it to
the Council within ten (10) days after receiving it or unless the Council votes
to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration of the ordinance no later
than the second regular meeting following its return, by affirmative vote of
one (1) more than a majority of the membership.
   (K)   Municipal orders.
      (1)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. Orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
      (2)   A municipal order may be used for matters relating to the internal
operation and functions of the city and to appoint or remove or approve
appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and other agencies
over which the city has control.
   (L)   Proof. All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the
signature of the City Clerk, and when the ordinances are placed in a printed
composite index or code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed
copy shall be received in evidence by any state court without further proof of
the ordinance.
                          
Statutory Reference:
   Enactment of ordinances, KRS 83A.060
Cross reference:
   Rules of procedure, §
20.255
CHAPTER 21: NONELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I. CITY CLERK
   
21.001   Office Established
   
21.002   Duties
   
21.003   Oath
   
21.004   Compensation
ARTICLE II. CITY TREASURER
   
21.100   Office Established
   
21.101   Duties
   
21.102   Oath
   
21.103   Compensation
                          
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected officials, see KRS 83A.080
ARTICLE I. CITY CLERK
§ 21.001 OFFICE ESTABLISHED
   There is hereby created the office of City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
                          
Cross reference:
   Requesting records from City Clerk, §
24.100
   Referral to other custodian, §
24.101
§ 21.002 DUTIES
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of all city records and shall
keep the minutes of the proceedings of the council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall perform other duties, and have other powers, as
may from time to time be delegated by the Mayor by executive order or
prescribed by the council by ordinance or municipal order or as required by
statute.
   (C)   The duties of Alcoholic Beverage Commissioner of the city shall be
discharged by the City Clerk.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall, no later than January 31 of each year, mail to
the Department of Local Government, a list containing current city information
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1) The correct name of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the following
appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
         (a)   City Clerk;
         (b)   City Treasurer;
         (c)   City Attorney;
         (d)   Finance Director;
         (e)   Public Works Director
      (2) The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
      (3) The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1990, 2-12-90)
                          
Cross reference:
   City Clerk to prepare agenda, §
20.254
   Duties during council meeting, §
20.255
   City Clerk to administer and collect garbage fees, §
30.001
   City Clerk to issue permit for parking, §
40.102
   City Clerk to prepare tax bills, §
61.003
   Alcoholic beverage regulations, duties under;
Chapter 62
   Homeowner's associations to register with City Clerk, §
70.004
   City Clerk to investigate and enforce building regulation provisions, §
70.014
   City Clerk to keep comprehensive plan and development code on file, §§
80.001-
80.002
   City Clerk to keep zoning log, §
80.100
   City Clerk to notify Mayor of zoning action, §
80.101
§ 21.003 OATH
   The City Clerk shall take the oath prescribed by the Kentucky Constitution,
§ 228.
(Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
§ 21.004 COMPENSATION
   The City Clerk shall be compensated in accordance with the city's annual
budget ordinance.
(Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81)
                          
Cross reference:
   City Council to set compensation, §
20.208
ARTICLE II. CITY TREASURER
§ 21.100 OFFICE ESTABLISHED
   There is hereby created the office of City Treasurer.
§ 21.101 DUTIES
   (A)   The Treasurer shall be the chief financial officer of the city and
shall be responsible for assisting the Mayor in preparing the budget and
accounting for all city monies.
   (B)   The City Council hereby provides that the Treasurer shall perform the
duties of collector.
      (1)   The Collector shall collect all monies owed to the city and shall
pay the money over to the person entitled to it. The Collector shall not be
required to make a demand for the collection of taxes due the city, but they
shall be payable at the City office.
      (2)   The Collector shall account to the City Council as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 12-78, 1-8-79; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 9-1981,
10-12-81; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1990, 2-12-90)
                          
Cross reference:
   City Treasurer to collect ad valorem tax, §
61.004
§ 21.102 OATH
   The Treasurer shall take the oath prescribed by the Kentucky Constitution, §
228.
(1990 Code §
1.8)
§ 21.103 COMPENSATION
   The Treasurer shall be compensated in accordance with the city's annual
budget ordinance.
                          
Cross reference:
   City Council to set compensation, §
20.208
CHAPTER 22: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
ARTICLE I. RECREATIONAL COMMITTEE
   
22.001   Committee Established
   
22.002   Appointment; term
   
22.003   Powers; duties
   
22.004   Fees
ARTICLE II. OTHER BOARDS
   
22.100   Board of Ethics
   
22.101   Planning Commission
   
22.102   Tree Board
ARTICLE I. RECREATIONAL COMMITTEE
§ 22.001 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED
   The city hereby establishes a Recreational Committee, which shall be a
standing committee of the City of Douglass Hills Council.
(Ord. No. 15-1976, 7-12-76; Amd. Ord. No. 17-1976, 9-13-76; Amd. Ord. No. 6-
1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2023, 3-16-23)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Parks, playgrounds and recreation, KRS Chapter 97
Cross reference:
   Authorization of acquisition of recreational facilities, Tables of Special
Ordinances,
Table 5
   Sale of recreational facility bonds, Tables of Special Ordinances,
Table 3
   Records to be public, exceptions;
Chapter 24
   Meetings to be open to public,
Chapter 25
   Ethical conduct required,
Chapter 26.
§ 22.002 APPOINTMENT; TERM
   The Committee shall consist of no less than three (3) members and no more
than five (5) members appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of City
Council, for terms of four (4) years each. Members of the Committee shall serve
without compensation and shall be legal voters of the city.
(Ord. No. 15-1976, 7-12-76; Amd. Ord. No. 17-1976, 9-13-76; Amd. Ord. No. 6-
1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2023, 3-16-23)
§ 22.003 POWERS; DUTIES
   (A)   The Recreational Committee shall have the power and authority to
review all the recreational facilities owned and operated by the City of
Douglass Hills and issue recommendations to the Mayor and City Council
concerning capital improvements, maintenance, funding and day to day operation
of those recreational facilities.
(Ord. No. 15-1976, 7-12-76; Amd. Ord. No. 17-1976, 9-13-76; Amd. Ord. No. 6-
1981, 4-3-81; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2023, 3-16-23)
   (B)   The Committee shall exercise no executive power and shall only make
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council concerning the operation and
funding of the city's recreational facilities.
(Ord. No. 15-1976, 7-12-76; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2023, 3-16-23)
§ 22.004 FEES
   (A)   The Recreational Committee shall make recommendation as to the Mayor
and City Council as to the membership fees and charges for use of Douglass
Hills swimming pool, or other recreational facility.
   (B)   The Recreational Committee shall issue any recommendation on changes
to the fees charged for use of the swimming pool or other of the city's
recreational facilities, prior to the first (1st) day of March. Any fee charged
by the city for use of its recreational facilities must be adopted by ordinance
of the Douglass Hills City Council. Any such fee shall be a user fee, in
accordance with KRS 91A.510 to 91A.530 and shall not generate revenues in
excess of the reasonable cost of providing the recreational facility. Pursuant
to KRS 92.330, the purpose of such fees is to defray the cost of operating the
recreational facility and for no other purpose.
(Ord. No. 2-2023, 3-16-23)
ARTICLE II. OTHER BOARDS
§ 22.100 BOARD OF ETHICS
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
26.400-
26.409.
§ 22.101 PLANNING COMMISSION
   The city has adopted the comprehensive plan and development code as
recommended by the Jefferson County Planning Commission, and shall accept
recommendations from the Jefferson County Planning Commission in accordance
with the provisions set out in
Chapter 80 of this code.
§ 22.102   TREE BOARD
   (A)   Establishment of Tree Board. There is hereby established a Tree Board
for the city which shall consist of a chairperson and a minimum of three (3)
voting members who collaborate and establish policy decisions based on majority
consensus; members must be residents of the city. The members shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the Council, for
staggered three (3) year terms. Participation is voluntary and served without
compensation. The Tree Board attempts to meet monthly and all meetings must be
open and announced to the residents of the city.
   (B)   City Tree Consultant. The city shall retain the services of a Tree
Consultant, who shall have extensive knowledge in matters relating to trees and
horticulture, such as an arborist, forester or horticulturalist, to advise and
assist the Tree Board with their duties and responsibilities described in this
section, with a cost and contract to be approved annually by the city as part
of its normal budget cycle.
   (C)   Tree work plan. The Tree Board shall study, develop, update, and
administer a written tree work plan, cost of implementation of which shall be
submitted and approved by the City Council within the approved annual city
budget cycle. The plan can address species diversity, planting needs, hazardous
trees, insect and disease problems, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs along streets and other
public areas and a pattern of regular care such as pruning and watering. Any
plan shall be presented to the City Council for their review, acceptance, and
approval.
   (D)   Additional assignments. The Tree Board may be assigned by the City
Council to research, investigate, consider, and make findings and report upon
any other matter in relation to trees and tree preservation.
   (E)   Budget. The city shall fund the Tree Work Plan or any special
observance celebrations with approved annual budgeted funds allocated for the
Tree Board. The cost of the City Tree Consultant shall not be included in this
budget calculation.
   (F)   Review and appeal. The City Council may review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 2-2020, 5-7-20; Amd. Ord. No. 7-2024, 2-6-25)
                                   
Cross reference:
   Trees and shrubs,
Chapter 53
CHAPTER 23: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
23.001   Definitions
   
23.002   Accounting records
   
23.003   Annual budget
   
23.004   Annual city audit
   
23.005   Official depositories
§ 23.001 DEFINITIONS
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010 (6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010 (7))
§ 23.002 ACCOUNTING RECORDS
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The city accounting system shall be organized and operate on a fund
basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 23.003 ANNUAL BUDGET
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of law, the city shall not expend any moneys from a
governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance with a budget ordinance
adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year shall
have full force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance shall cover one (1) fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor, and the budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (F)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the City Council no later than thirty (30) days before the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall:
      (1)   Contain an explanation of the governmental goals fixed by the
budget for the coming fiscal year;
      (2)   Explain important features of the activities anticipated in the
budget;
      (3)   Set forth the reasons for stated changes from the previous year in
program goals, program and appropriation levels; and
      (4)   Explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (G)   The City Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations
for the fiscal year in such sums as the Council finds sufficient and proper,
whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The
budget ordinance may be in any form that the Council finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
   (H)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for appropriations
to exceed revenues in any one (1) fiscal year in violation of Section 157 of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Council may amend the budget ordinance after the ordinance is
adopted, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the requirements of this
section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility shall include the
preparation and submission to the Council of operating statements which shall
include budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three (3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system used in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
23.20.
   (M)   No city agency or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency may bind the city in any way or to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void. No city officer shall issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent beyond the unexpended
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 23.004 ANNUAL CITY AUDIT
   (A)   After the close of each fiscal year, the city shall cause each fund of
the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under subsection (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (C)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements.
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures as considered necessary under the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500). In addition, any officer who fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500), in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of real
property within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable
fee for the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing the action,
shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (G)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in subsection (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine (9) months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
subsection (H) of this section shall apply.
   (H)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in subsections (A) and
(G) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of subsections (A) and (G) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
(KRS 91A.040)
§ 23.005 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one (1)
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
CHAPTER 24: PUBLIC RECORDS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
24.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II. PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
   
24.100   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
24.101   Referral to proper custodian
   
24.102   Public records not immediately available
   
24.103   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
24.104   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
24.105   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
24.106   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
24.107   Public records protected from disclosure
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 24.001 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "CITY." The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE." The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE" shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   "CUSTODIAN." The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The "CUSTODIAN" having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
(KRS 61.870(6))
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN" of this city
shall be the Mayor.
(KRS 61.870(5))
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING." Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder, or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   "MEDIA." The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, and municipal corporation; every city government agency,
including the policy-making board of an institution of education created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "PUBLIC
AGENCY", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "PUBLIC AGENCY",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created or controlled by a "PUBLIC AGENCY" as defined
on this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "PUBLIC AGENCY" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   "PUBLIC RECORD." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, disks,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. "PUBLIC RECORD" shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1) (h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
24.107.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   "REASONABLE FEE" or "FEE." The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   "RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH."
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in paragraphs (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
(KRS 61.870(10))
   "REQUEST." An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   "SOFTWARE." The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. "SOFTWARE" consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency
and an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
ARTICLE II. PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 24.100 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION
   (A)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any resident of the
Commonwealth, except as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and
suitable facilities shall be made available by each public agency for the
exercise of this right. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of any public agency without the
written permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (B)   (1)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his name printed legibly on the application,
describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may require the
applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the manner in
which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under paragraphs (1) to
(5) of definition of a “resident of the Commonwealth” in §
24.100.
      (2)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency’s official custodian of
public records, or his or her designee, at the e-mail address designated in the
public agency’s rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (3)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4).
(KRS 61.872(2))
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular office hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he precisely describes the public
records which are readily available within the public agency. If the resident
of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that copies of the
records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of
all fees and the cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
24.001.
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8 1/2 inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons, who intend to use them for commercial purposes,
if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes,
the public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast,unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 24.101 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant and shall
furnish the name and location of the custodian of the public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
                          
Cross reference:
   Board of Ethics to act as custodian of its records, §
26.203
§ 24.102 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate place, time, and date for inspection of the public records not
to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from
receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is given
for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the public
record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 24.103 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 24.104 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five (5) day period of its decision. Any agency response delaying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian's authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
§ 24.105 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 24.106 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 24.107 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings, and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the office for Security Coordination
and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in state law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
24.103.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under subsection
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 25: PUBLIC MEETINGS
ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
25.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
   
25.100   Meetings open to the public
   
25.101   Requirements for closed sessions
   
25.102   Public meeting schedules
   
25.103   Special meetings
   
25.104   Video teleconferences
   
25.105   Enforcement
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make
a positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   (B)   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video
teleconferences, regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular
or special and informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in
conjunction with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   (C)   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "MEMBER"
does not include employees of licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   (D)   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and
authority; every city council and council board, commission and committee;
every school district board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
every city government agency, including the policy-making board of an
institution of education created by or pursuant to state or local statute,
executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act in the
legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the majority of
its governing body is appointed by a "PUBLIC AGENCY", as defined by this
section; a member or employee of a "PUBLIC AGENCY", a state or local officer,
or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad
hoc committee, advisory committee, council, council or agency, except for a
committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of
evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees, established, created,
or controlled by a "PUBLIC AGENCY" as defined in this section; an interagency
body of two (2) or more public agencies where each "PUBLIC AGENCY" is defined
in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   (E)   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 25.100 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (9)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussions between individual
members where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on
specific issues.
                          
Cross reference:
   Council meetings, §§
20.250-
20.255
   Board of Ethics meetings, §
26.400
§ 25.101 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
25.100(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
25.100 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final matters may be discussed at a closed session other than
those publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
25.100(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 25.102 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 25.103 SPECIAL MEETINGS
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
                          
Cross reference:
   Special council meetings, §
20.251
§ 25.104 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsection (B)(2)
to (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 25.105 ENFORCEMENT
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 26: ETHICS CODE
ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
26.001   Title
   
26.002   Purpose
   
26.003   Definitions
ARTICLE II STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
   
26.100   Conflicts of interest in general
   
26.101   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
26.102   Receipt of Gifts
   
26.103   Use of city property, equipment, personnel
   
26.104   Misuse of confidential information
   
26.105   Social media usage policy
ARTICLE III FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
   
26.200   Who must file
   
26.201   When to file statements; amended statements
   
26.202   Form; statement of financial interests
   
26.203   Control; maintenance of statements of financial interest
   
26.204   Contents; financial interest statement
   
26.205   Noncompliance with filing requirement
ARTICLE IV NEPOTISM
   
26.300   Nepotism prohibited
ARTICLE V ENFORCEMENT
   
26.400   Board of Ethics established
   
26.401   Facilities; staff
   
26.402   Powers; duties of board
   
26.403   Filing; investigation of complaints
   
26.404   Notice of hearing
   
26.405   Hearing procedure
   
26.406   Appeals
   
26.407   Limitation of actions
   
26.408   Advisory opinions
   
26.409   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
26.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 26.001 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Douglass Hills
Code of Ethics."
(Ord. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.002 PURPOSE
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflict of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(Ord. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.003 DEFINITIONS
   As used in this chapter, the following shall have the meaning ascribed to
them unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS or BOARD." The City of Douglass Hills Board of Ethics which
is created and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   "CITY."  The City of Douglass Hills, Kentucky.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person whether full-time or part-time, who is employed by or
provides service to the city. The term "EMPLOYEE" shall not include any
contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER ." A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, an unemancipated child or stepchild
residing in the officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the
officer or employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependant for
tax purposes.
   "OFFICER."  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is of the following:
      (A)   The Mayor.
      (B)   Councilmembers.
      (C)   The City Clerk.
      (D)   The City Treasurer.
      (E)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 26.100 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL
   (A)   An elected or non elected officer or employee of the city shall not
intentionally participate, in his official capacity, in the discussion, vote,
or decision-making or any other matter if:
      (1)   The officer or employee, or any family member, or business
associate will derive a direct monetary gain or suffer a direct monetary loss
as a result of the officer's or employee's vote or decision: or
      (2)   The matter relates specifically to a business in which the officer
or employee owns or controls an interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
or more, or an interest of more than five percent (5%).
   (B)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of these
provisions if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation, vote,
decision, or inaction, no monetary or material gain accrues to the officer or
employee, a family member, or a business associate, as a member of any
business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than
any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or their group.
   (C)   Nothing in these provisions shall prohibit an elected officer from
voting on matters affecting his compensation, expenses, benefits, and
allowances, as provided by law.
   (D)   Any officer or employee having a prohibited financial interest which
the officer or employee believes may be affected by his participation, vote,
decision, or other action taken within the scope of his public duties shall
disclose, to the governing body, the precise nature and value of the interest.
The disclosure shall be entered on the governing body's official record of the
proceedings. Any officer or employee shall refrain from taking any action on
any matter subject to disclosure under this subsection.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.101 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
unless a finding is made by the governing body of the city or city agency that
the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reasons.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.102 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift or
gifts having fair market value of more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars,
whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or
could reasonably be expected to influence, the officer or employee in the
performance of his public duties.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.103 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, PERSONNEL
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of city
personnel or city property, including land, vehicles, equipment, materials, or
any other property, for personal convenience or profit, except when the use is
available to citizens of the city generally or is provided to the citizens as a
service as a matter of city policy.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.104 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
      No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his official duties.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Public records protected from disclosure, §
24.107
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.105 SOCIAL MEDIA USAGE POLICY
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt a policy regarding the use of social media
for the city's communication of city information. The policy governs the use,
administration, management, monitoring and retention of the city's social media
content. This policy is also applicable to any city website. The purpose of
this policy is to establish general standards and responsibilities when city
employees and elected officials are communicating about the city using social
media, to ensure that social media is being used appropriately and in
compliance with the city's policies.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to use social media to provide
information and resources to the residents of the city and to provide another
convenient point of contact between the city and its citizens. The city shall
use of social media to share information, reinforce messages, and provide an
opportunity to distribute information quickly and efficiently to a large
audience. It is not the policy of the city to create a public forum on any
social media platforms, or city websites, for political discussions, debate, or
public comment.
   (C)   The city recognizes the role that these tools play in the lives of
city government and the individuals that serve the city and acknowledges that
its employees have the right under the state and federal constitutions to speak
out on matters of public concern not related to their official duties. This
policy is not intended to interfere with any city employee or official's right
to freedom of speech. However, the city does have the right to establish
minimal and reasonable restrictions on the use of social media by city
officials and employees to encourage constructive and positive use of social
media for city government communications.
   (D)   All uses of social media on behalf of the city, or in any manner that
represents the city or constitute communication by the city, must comply with
the following standards:
      (1)   No employee or city official may establish, use, or terminate an
official city social media identity, account, profile, page, or site without
the approval of the applicable department head or the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall designate persons who are authorized to post social
media content on the city's social media accounts and no other person(s) shall
post content without prior authorization from the Mayor.
      (3)   No information, link, or other materials or communications may be
posted on a departmental social media account that is not related to the
mission, services, and business objectives of the city.
      (4)   Social media accounts established by the city are to be used for
city business or informational purposes only. Communications and postings that
are not related to a city or department business purpose are prohibited.
      (5)   Any posts dealing with political or legislative initiatives or
issues must be specifically approved by the Mayor prior to posting.
   (E)   The city considers the activities and uses of social media listed
below to be unacceptable. The city reserves the right to delete any information
posted on the city's social media sites that is unacceptable. This list is not
exhaustive. Questions about particular uses of social media or particular
social media content should be directed to the City Clerk who will forward the
question to the Mayor for a decision. Unacceptable uses of social media
include:
      (1)   Using social media in a manner that does not comply with federal,
state, and local laws and regulations, and with city policies.
      (2)   Using social media in a manner that violates the copyright, trade
or other intellectual property rights of any person or entity, or otherwise
violates their legal ownership interests.
      (3)   Ethnic slurs, profanity, personal insults, material that is
harassing, defamatory, fraudulent, or discriminatory or other content or
communications that would not be acceptable in the city workplace under city or
department policy or practice.
      (4)   Obscene, indecent, or profane language, pictures, or videos.
      (5)   Fraudulent, deceptive, or misleading information.
      (6)   Comments not related to the posted topic for the city social media
page or post.
      (7)   Multiple, successive, off-topic posts by a single user or
repetitive posts copied and pasted by multiple users or spam.
      (8)   Promotion or endorsement of commercial services and products.
      (9)   Violates the terms of contracts governing the use of any social
media content, including, but not limited to, software and other intellectual
property licenses.
      (10)   Displays sexually explicit images, cartoons, jokes, messages, or
other material in violation of the city's sexual harassment policy.
      (11)   Expressions of support, or in opposition to, a political party or
candidate before or during an election period.
      (12)   Contains confidential or "for official use only" information or
information that compromises the security of city networks or information
systems. Such "for official use only" or confidential information includes, but
is not limited to, information that is protected under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), being Pub. Law No. 104-191,
or other federal, state, or local laws and regulations (except as permitted
under such laws and regulations) as well as Social Security numbers and other
personally identifiable information.
   (F)   The city may allow submittals or posts to an official city site if the
content does not violate the social media policy and it is in keeping with the
city's stated purpose of providing public information. However, users may not
post their own content without prior approval of the city. Reproduced or
borrowed content that violates third party rights will be hidden. Users should
have no expectation of privacy when posting to a city site. Comments made to
these sites are reviewed and while city employees will not edit comments, a
comment may be hidden if it violates the city's social media policy.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all official city social media
accounts including, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name, hosting site, internet address, date of inception for the
account and a statement of the purpose and scope of the department's use of the
account.
      (2)   All usernames, passwords, and other log-in credentials for the
account.
      (3)   All authorized persons having access to and/or responsibility for
the account.
      (4)   The administrative contacts and contact information for the
account.
      (5)   The city shall ensure that all city social media accounts and
social media content are periodically reviewed for compliance with this policy
and that the information is kept secure.
      (6)   Social media content is subject to the records retention and
destruction schedule established by the state law whether or not the social
media is currently posted on the department's site(s).
   (H)   City officials, including members of boards and councils can maintain
a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered personal, there
can be no mention and discussion of city business. Any mention or discussion of
city business potentially changes the nature of the page, required record
keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department of Library and Archives
retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to open records requests.
      (1)   Elected or appointed city officials who want to interact with the
community on social media in their role as a city official are required to
maintain a separate account. City officials will notify the City Clerk of any
official pages utilized. The City Clerk will maintain an updated list of
official pages of city officials.
      (2)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
      (3)   Elected city officials’ pages shall clearly indicate that any
content posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure.
Additionally, guidelines, if any, shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
      (4)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted
guidelines. Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be
saved for one year.
      (5)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at (official city
email address, not a personal email) or contact me at (phone number). I look
forward to speaking with you.”
      (6)   City officials shall maintain an official email address and shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk. This must be a separate account
from their personal email account.
      (7)   Officials should refrain from using personal email to conduct any
city business.
      (8)   The city shall retain emails according to the Kentucky Department
of Library and Archives schedule for email. City officials shall direct any
record keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 5-2024, 9-5-24)
ARTICLE III. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 26.200 WHO MUST FILE
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials, or persons properly appointed to elected
positions.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.201 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records, no later than 4:30 p.m. February
28, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no
later than 4:30 p.m. on February 28 each year, provided that:
      (1)   A person newly-appointed to fill an office shall file his initial
statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his initial statement no
later than thirty (30) days after the date he files to run for office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board of Ethics, the
elected officer shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of
the material change, file an amended statement with the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.202 FORM; STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than February 1 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.203 CONTROL; MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS
   (A)   The statements of financial interests shall be maintained by the Board
of Ethics, which shall act as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be maintained by the Board,
or the designated administrative official, for a period of five (5) years after
filing.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Custodian of public records, §
24.001
   City Clerk to notify official custodian of requests for records, §
24.100
   Procedure for inspecting public documents, §§
24.100-
24.107
§ 26.204 CONTENTS; FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office or office sought.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's spouse and dependents exceeding five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars
during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g. salary,
commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.).
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand ($10,000.00)
dollars at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside the state, if
the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during the
past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollars at fair market value or five percent (5%)
ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand ($10,000.00)
dollars or more.
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of one hundred ($100.00) dollars per calendar year
or more from any single source, excluding gifts received from family members
and received by the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family during
the preceding calendar year.
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than ten thousand
($10,000.00) dollars, except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for personal, family or household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the name of individual
clients or customers of business listed as sources of income.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.205 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board of Ethics. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency,
shall establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied,
and shall advise the person of the penalties for violation.
(Ord. 94-015, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
ARTICLE IV. NEPOTISM
§ 26.300 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall directly
supervise or manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member benefits to no greater extent than any other
similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
November 11, 1994.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT
§ 26.400 BOARD OF ETHICS ESTABLISHED
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three (3) members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the Council. The
initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within sixty (60)
days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall
serve for a term of three (3) years; except that with respect to the members
initially appointed, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of one (1)
year, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and one
(1) member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. Each member of the Board
of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one (1) year
prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout
the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
   (C) A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject to
the approval of the Council for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under
this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before
the Mayor and the Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within sixty (60)
days by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the Council. All vacancies shall
be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two (2) members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two (2) members shall be necessary for any official action
to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of interest
with respect to any matter to be considered by the board shall disclose the
nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter, and
shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Board of Ethics, §
23.100
   Meetings to be public, exceptions, §§
25.100-
25.105
§ 26.401 FACILITIES; STAFF
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the Council in the annual
budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or by
contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of business.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.402 POWERS; DUTIES OF BOARD
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board of Ethics who
has the power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, the City Council, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or
body, as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that all statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter,
Chapter 24 of this code and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or Council.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Procedure for inspecting public records, §§
24.100-
24.107 
§ 26.403 FILING; INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten (10) working days to each officer
or employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the Mayor and Council.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   When meetings may be held in private, §
25.100
   Records protected from disclosure, §
24.107
§ 26.404 NOTICE OF HEARING
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.405 HEARING PROCEDURE
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board; however, the
hearing shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all documents
and records obtained or prepared by the Board of Ethics in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board of Ethics shall inform the alleged violator, or
his representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board of Ethics hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its
findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board of Ethics concludes in its report that no violation of
this chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board of Ethics concludes in its report that in consideration
of the evidence produced at the hearing, there is clear and convincing proof of
a violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and governing body of the city or
city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the governing body, if
different than the executive authority, that the violator be sanctioned as the
Board recommends. The Board may recommend that the violator be disciplined, or
dismissed or removed from office, whichever applies.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay civil penalty of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1000.00).
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney for prosecution.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Executive sessions, KRS 61.810
Cross reference:
   Closed sessions, §
25.101
§ 26.406 APPEALS
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Jefferson Circuit
Court within thirty days (30) after the date of the final action by the Board
of Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board
shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board
at the public hearing.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.407 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
§ 26.408 ADVISORY OPINIONS
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon facts or hypothetical situations and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by an officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality
is waived, in writing, by the requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Cross reference:
   Records not subject to disclosure, §
24.107
§ 26.409 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he discloses with reckless disregard for its
truth or falsity.
      (2)   To be exempt from the required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.884, and Chapter 24 of this code.
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Open records and exceptions, KRS 61.884
Cross Reference:
   Records protected from disclosure, §
24.107
   Penalty for violation, §
26.999
§ 26.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
26.205 pertaining to filing of statements of financial interests shall, in
addition to any other penalties set out in this chapter, be subject to the
following penalties:
      (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file a financial interests
statement or who fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing
identified in the notice under §
26.205 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of
Ethics in an amount not to exceed twenty-five ($25.00) dollars per day, up to a
maximum total civil fine of five hundred ($500.00) dollars. Any civil fine
imposed by the Board of Ethics under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (D)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. No. 7-1994, 12-12-94)
CHAPTER 27: INVESTMENT POLICY
Section
   
27.001   Investment policies
   
27.002   Scope
   
27.003   Investment objectives
   
27.004   Investment authority
   
27.005   Standards of care
   
27.006   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
27.007   Safekeeping and custody
   
27.008   Suitable and authorized investments
   
27.009   Investment parameters
   
27.010   Performance standards/evaluation
   
27.011   Reporting/disclosure methods
   
27.012   Policy considerations
   
27.013   Approval of investment policy
§ 27.001 INVESTMENT POLICIES
   It is the policy of the City of Douglass Hills to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of
principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of Douglass
Hills and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy
applies to all financial assets held directly by the City of Douglass Hills.
These financial assets are accounted for in the City of Douglass Hills annual
financial report and include all monies in investment fund accounts.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.002 SCOPE
   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the
city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual financial
report and include all monies in the following funds:
   (A)   General Fund;
   (B)   Special Revenue Fund;
   (C)   Capital Projects Fund;
   (D)   Enterprise Fund;
   (E)   Utility Depreciation Fund;
   (F)   Agency Fund; and
   (G)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.003 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
   The City of Douglass Hills primary investment objectives, in order of
priority, are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the City of
Douglass Hills' investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The
goal is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of Douglass Hills' investment portfolio shall
remain sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Douglass Hills to meet all
operating requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of Douglass Hills investment portfolio
shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return
throughout the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of
Douglass Hills' investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics
of the portfolio.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.004 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY
   Management's responsibility for the City of Douglass Hills' investment
program is the joint responsibility of the designated officials, which shall be
the Mayor, the City Treasurer and one member of the City Council. The
designated officials shall share the authority, subject to the approval of the
governing body, to establish additional specific written procedures for the
operation of the investment program that are consistent with this investment
policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of authority, if any,
to persons responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an
investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and
the procedures established by the designated officials. These designated
officials shall be ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and
shall establish a system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate
officials and employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control
losses of public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by
third parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions
by officers and employees. The designated officials shall maintain all records
related to the entity's investment program.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.005 STANDARDS OF CARE
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the designated officials in the performance
of their duties as managers of the City of Douglass Hills' funds shall be
evaluated using the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with
judgment and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence,
discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The designated
officials, acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment
policy, and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate designated officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
designated officials as designated by this chapter. Responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the designated
officials who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and
internal controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and
other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the
investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public
trust. No officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
      (3)   Investment adviser. The city may engage the services of one or more
external investment managers to assist in the management of the entity's
investment portfolio in a manner consistent with the city's objectives. Such
external managers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment
securities in accordance with this investment policy. Such managers must be
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.006 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by conducting a
process of due diligence. These may include "primary" dealers or regional
dealers that quality under Securities and Exchange Council (SEC) Rule 15C3-1
(uniform net capital rule).
   (A)   The designated officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and brokers/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of Douglass Hills shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties); and
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity's investment policy and evidence of adequate insurance
coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and brokers/dealers will be conducted by the
designated officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the designated officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
Kentucky law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions:
         (a)   The designated officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the designated
officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide upon request.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.007 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the City of Douglass Hills. All
securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the City of
Douglass Hills. The safekeeping institution shall annually provide a copy of
its most recent report on internal controls: Service Organization Control
Reports (formerly 70, or SAS 70) prepared in accordance with the Statement on
Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.008 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices, the investments as defined by KRS 66.480, are allowed. KRS 66.480(2)
restricts overall investment in KRS 66.480(1), (e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of
the following types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
      (1)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian (See KRS 66.480(1)(a)).
      (2)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry the
full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest (See KRS 66.480(1)(b)).
      (3)   Federal Agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE)
obligations, participations or other instruments (See KRS 66.480(1)(c)).
      (4)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240 (See KRS 66.480(1)(d)).
      (5)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan having
a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories by a
competent rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(e)).
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(f)).
      (7)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-1, P-1, F-1,
or D-1 or higher) by a competent rating organization (See KRS 66.480(1)(g)).
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities (See KRS 66.480(1)(h)).
      (9)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(i)).
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified by
KRS 66.480(1)(j).
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a professional
investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
   (B)   Important note. If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new investment of that
security, the designated officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-
case basis in order to determine if the security should be held or sold. The
Designated Officials will apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity,
yield and legality to make the decision.
   (C)   Collateralization. Where allowed or required by Kentucky law full
collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including
checking accounts and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes)
and non-negotiable certificates of deposit.
   (D)   Authorized collateral. Acceptable collateral for bank deposits and
repurchase agreements shall include only:
      (1)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage- backed securities;
      (2)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at least
AA by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.009 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting a
diversification strategy as follows: It is the policy of the City of Douglass
Hills to diversify its investment portfolios within the restrictions of state
and federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local government investment in
securities to 20% of total investment with no more than 5% of total investment
in a single issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480(2)(d)(1)-(4). Furthermore,
local governments are restricted from investing 40% of allowed securities
investment total in mutual funds and exchange traded funds, individual equity
securities, and individual high-quality corporate bonds by KRS 66.480(2)(b).
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.010 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS EVALUATION
   The city's investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and complying with state law.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.011 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE METHODS
   The designated officials shall submit, at least, quarterly an investment
report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic developments and
anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize the investment
strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the portfolio in
terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics and other
features. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment return and
compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an
appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. The report
shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to the
investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report shall
indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the designated officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the city's annual comprehensive annual financial report.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.012 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the designated officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
§ 27.013 APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICY
   The investment policy and any modifications to that policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the governing body of the City of Douglass Hills.
(Ord. 6-2019, 10-3-19)
TITLE 3: PUBLIC WORKS AND UTILITIES
CHAPTER 30   GARBAGE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 31   SEWER
CHAPTER 30: GARBAGE COLLECTION
   
30.001   Recycling program authorized
   
30.999   Penalty
§ 30.001 RECYCLING PROGRAM AUTHORIZED
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to contract with a single entity for the
collection of recyclable material within the city limits. The collection of
recyclable materials is to be at locations specified by the city. The city
shall specify what materials are to be deemed recyclable which may include
newsprint, plastic, aluminum containers, glass and other materials so
specified.
   (B)   Anyone who deposits materials specified as recyclable at locations
designated by the city's authorized agent for pickup shall be deemed to have
conveyed title of the materials to the city. Only materials specified as
recyclable by the city will be collected. No person shall deposit materials
other than recyclable materials for pickup by the city's authorized agent.
   (C)   No person shall remove any recyclable materials that have been
deposited for pickup as part of the city's recycling program without the
consent of the city.
(Ord. No. 2-1990, 4-9-90)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
30.999
§ 30.999 PENALTY
   Any person or other entity violating §
30.002 shall be guilty of a violation and subject to a fine of fifty ($50.00)
dollars. Each unauthorized removal of recyclable material shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. No. 2-1990, 4-9-90)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty where no other penalty provided for violation, §
10.999
CHAPTER 31: SEWER
   
31.001   Purpose, findings, authority
   
31.002   Sewer, drainage services agreement authorized
§ 31.001 PURPOSE, FINDINGS, AUTHORITY
   (A)   The city has determined that it is in the public interest that
Metropolitan Sewer District take control of all drainage facilities and
drainage property owned, operated, controlled or dedicated to the city.
   (B)   The city desires to improve its drainage facilities.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 76.170, the Metropolitan Sewer District is authorized
to extend its boundaries for the purpose of construction and maintenance of
drainage facilities.
(Ord. No. 7-1987, 11-4-87)
§ 31.002 SEWER, DRAINAGE SERVICES AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED 
   (A)   The city authorizes the annexation of the city into the Metropolitan
Sewer District area. The Metropolitan Sewer District shall provide drainage
facilities for the city according to the terms of the agreement between the
city and the Metropolitan Sewer District approved by the City Council on July
16, 1987, signed by the Mayor on July 21, 1987, and adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein. The city authorizes the Metropolitan Sewer District at
all future times to construct drainage facilities within the city limits
according to the terms of the aforesaid agreement.
   (B)   A copy of the agreement shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 7-1987, 11-4-87)
TITLE 4: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 40   MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATION
CHAPTER 41   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 40: MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
40.001   Manner of parking
   
40.002   Vehicle weight limits
   
40.003   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
40.004   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
40.005   Parking restricted to allow cleaning and snow clearing
   
40.006   Parking in excess of certain hours
   
40.007   Owner responsibility
   
40.008   Recreational vehicles
   
40.009   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
40.010   Required notice to owner
   
40.011   Sale of vehicle
   
40.012   Exceptions
ARTICLE II. PARKING
   
40.100   Schedule of streets with no parking
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
40.200   Schedule of streets with speed limits
   
40.201   Schedule of streets with crosswalks
   
40.999   Penalty
§ 40.001 MANNER OF PARKING
   (A)   Except for the perpendicular parking allowed around the park on
Gatehouse Lane, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or
park it in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within one (1) foot of and parallel with the curb.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.002 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS
   (A)   No person shall operate on any public way any motor vehicle which
exceeds twenty-one thousand (21,000) pounds gross weight, including the load.
   (B)   This section shall not extend to any moving vans, garbage trucks,
vehicles conveying children to and from school, or authorized construction
vehicles, or recreational vehicles for which a permit has been obtained. Any
other motor vehicle entering the city for purposes of delivering goods,
merchandise or other property or service to residents of the city is limited to
six (6) hours in a seven (7) day period.
   (C)   The Mayor shall erect or cause to be erected signs indicating weight
limitations described in this section at appropriate locations in the city.
(Ord. No. 10-74, 8-26-74; Amd. Ord. No. 7-1981, 6-8-81; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2002,
2-11-02; Amd. Ord. No. 7-2004, 10-11-04))
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violations, §
40.999
§ 40.003 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or on a driveway blocking a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a sidewalk ramp providing for handicapped access;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where an official sign prohibits parking;
      (6)   Within thirty (30) feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal;
      (7)   Within fifteen (15) feet of each side of the approach to any fire
hydrant;
      (8)   Any place the curb is painted red or yellow;
      (9)   In any manner that affects the two (2) way flow of traffic,
including, but not limited to, parking on the street across from other
vehicles, where doing so restricts the width of the roadway to make two (2) way
traffic impossible or unsafe;
      (10)   In front of any public or private driveway;
      (11)   On grass or any surface that is not a hard surface of asphalt or
concrete;
      (12)   Without a permit, in a space reserved for the handicapped;
      (13)   Backed to the curb; and
      (14)   In any manner that is a violation of the Land Development Code.
   (B)   The maximum number of vehicles permitted to park outside of a garage
on any lot in the city shall be that applicable limit in the Land Development
Code of Louisville-Jefferson County established for the various zoning classes
and lot sizes.
   (C)   The maximum size of any vehicle allowed to be parked on any public
right-of-way, or on any lot and not inside of a garage in the city, is eight
(8) feet, eight (8) inches in overall width, or twenty-two (22) feet in overall
length, or eight (8) feet in overall height, or having more than two (2) axles.
   (D)   No trailers (boat or utility), farm or construction equipment,
machinery or equipment shall be parked on any public right-of-way in the city.
No trailers (boat or utility), farm or construction equipment, machinery or
equipment shall be parked outside of a garage on any residentially zoned lot in
the city.
   (E)   No vehicle may be parked outside of a garage on any lot if it is
inoperative or abandoned. A vehicle will be considered “INOPERATIVE OR
ABANDONED” if it does not have a current and valid license and registration,
has flat tires, is wrecked, has broken windows, or cannot move under its own
power.
   (F)   No vehicle may be parked for the primary purpose of displaying
advertisements. This restriction does not apply to residents who have personal
use, take-home vehicles that happen to contain lettering/images and are not
being parking for the primary purpose of displaying advertisements.
   (G)   Before on-street parking is permitted, residents and their visitors
must use all off-street parking areas such as driveways and parking lots.
Vehicles parked on the street must be moved off the street and onto off-street
parking areas as they become available for use. The fact that there is
available parking at a resident’s dwelling unit and cars owned by a resident or
a resident’s visitor remain parked on the street shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.004 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS
   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof stopping or
parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever, under the authority of or
by this traffic code or any other ordinance, any parking limit is imposed,
parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted to
handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall he erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting signs or in conjunction therewith, the face and
top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited may be
painted.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.005 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW CLEANING AND SNOW CLEARING
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that day. It may be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated. The city is authorized to declare a snow emergency and
require all vehicles to be parked off the street to facilitate snow removal.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.006 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS
   (A)   No vehicle shall remain on the street for a period of twenty-four (24)
consecutive hours. This section shall not apply to a vehicle that has been
disabled on the main traveled portion of the roadway, if it is removed within
forty-eight (48) hours.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one (1) place on any of the public ways
or streets of the city for a period of twenty-four (24) hours or longer shall
be deemed abandoned and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the
city pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.007 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this chapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.008 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   (A)   No watercraft or watercraft trailer, recreational vehicle, motor home,
bus, tractor, trailer or camper shall be parked or stored outside of a garage
on any residentially zoned lot in the city.
   (B)   No recreational or other vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot or on any
public right-of-way.
   (C)   No vacant lot shall be used for the storage of any watercraft or
watercraft trailer, recreational vehicle, motor home, bus, tractor, trailer or
camper.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a person may park a
watercraft or watercraft trailer, utility trailer, recreational vehicle, motor
home, bus, tractor, trailer or camper for a period not to exceed forty-eight
(48) hours in the driveway of their residence for the purpose of loading,
unloading, cleaning, repairing or servicing the recreational vehicle, provided
the owner first obtains a permit from the city for that purpose.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a recreational vehicle
owned by a person who is a guest of a resident may be parked for a period not
to exceed seventy-two (72) hours in the driveway of the residence of the person
being visited, if the resident first obtains a permit from the city for that
purpose.
   (F)   For purpose of this section, “RECREATIONAL VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT” is
defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers
or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized
dwellings, tent trailers and similar vehicles, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by the equipment or not.
Pick-up trucks with campers attached, or similar vehicles, used for normal
work-day transportation are excluded from this definition while in regular use
for that purpose.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.009 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION
   (A)   All police officers or the City Citation Officer are empowered to
authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department or the City Citation Officer.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.010 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER
   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported, the owner
of the facility shall attempt to provide all the notices required in KRS
Chapter 281. This notice shall contain the information as to the make, model,
license number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, the location
of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due on the vehicle.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.011 SALE OF VEHICLE
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles, in
either a private capacity or for the city, who has substantially complied with
the requirements of this chapter, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for
the reasonable or agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as
it remains in his or her possession. If, after a period of forty-five (45)
days, the reasonable or agreed charges for storing or towing a motor vehicle
have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be sold to pay the charges after the
owner has been notified by certified mail ten (10) days prior to the time and
place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this
section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting
and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver
or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting and
storage charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
§ 40.012 EXCEPTIONS
   The following shall be exceptions to this chapter:
   (A)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provision of
any section of the Kentucky Revised Statutes or any traffic ordinance,
regulation, sign, or the command of any police officer.
   (B)   Vehicles operating in the city as service providers, such as common
carriers for goods or passengers, service vehicles such as garbage trucks,
other service providers and school buses, provided that no such vehicles shall
stop for such purpose at a place on the roadway that does not afford reasonable
visibility to approaching motor vehicles from both directions.
   (C)   Vehicles and equipment used for a bona fide agricultural use on lots
larger than one-half (½) acre in size.
   (D)   Vehicles may be backed to the curb when loading and unloading,
provided that the loading and unloading and delivery of property and material
shall not consume more than thirty (30) minutes, and provided it does not
interfere with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road space
within ten (10) feet of the center line of the street.
   (E)   Variances. Property owners may petition the City Council for a
variance to allow parking that would otherwise not be allowed under this
chapter. Applicants shall submit each request in writing and must offer
evidence that proves to the satisfaction of the majority of the City Council
that the requested variance will not adversely affect the public health and
safety, will not alter the essential character of the general vicinity, will
not cause a hazard or nuisance, will not allow an unreasonable circumvention of
the city’s ordinances, and that the variance arises from special circumstances
that do not generally apply to land in the general vicinity or the same zone.
The City Council may condition the variance as it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
ARTICLE II. PARKING
§ 40.100 SCHEDULE OF STREETS WITH NO PARKING
   (A)   Parking shall not be allowed on the following streets or parts of
streets:
Table 40.100
STREETS WITH NO PARKING
Street Side Extent
Street         Side  Extent
Burnley Road   Both  Within 100 feet of its intersection with Gatehouse Lane
Burnley Road   Both  Within 200 feet of its intersection with Shelbyville Road
Burnsdale Road Both  Within 200 feet of its intersection with Shelbyville Road
Burnsdale Road Both  Within 100 feet of its intersection with Gatehouse Lane
Gatehouse Lane Both  Within 100 feet of its intersection with Burnley Road
Gatehouse Lane Both  Within 100 feet of its intersection with Burnsdale Road
Helmsdale      North No stopping or parking
Tattenham      North No stopping or parking
 
   (B)   No parking signs shall be place on Gatehouse Lane around the perimeter
of Crosby Middle School beginning at a point across the street from 208
Gatehouse Lane and continuing to the end of the school property line which is
across the street from 402 Gatehouse Lane. The signs shall replace current
signs reading “NO PARKING ON GRASS.”
(Ord. No. 2-1976, 1-5-76; Amd. Ord. No. 18-1976, 10-12-76; Amd. Ord. No. 7-
1981, 6-8-81; Amd. Ord. No. 1-2004, 1-12-04; Amd. Ord. No. 4-2006, 10-9-06)
                                       
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
40.999 
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
§ 40.200 SCHEDULE OF STREETS WITH SPEED LIMITS
   (A)   The following streets or parts of streets shall have speed limits as
follows:
Table 40.200
SPEED LIMITS
 
Street             Extent                     Speed Limit
Gatehouse Lane     From Finchley Road left to 20 m.p.h. (From last Saturday in
                   Helmsdale Lane             May through Labor Day)
Running Creek Road From Thorpe to Bruner Hill 20 m.p.h.
 
   (B)   The speed limit on all other streets in the city is 25 m.p.h.
(Ord. No. 3-1979, 5-14-79; Amd. Ord. No. 7-1981, 6-8-91; Amd. Ord. No. 3-2007,
6-29-07)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
40.999
§ 40.201 SCHEDULE OF STREETS WITH CROSSWALKS
   (A)   The following streets shall have crosswalks located on them as
follows:
 
Table 40.201(A)
CROSSWALKS
Street         Location
Gatehouse Lane From the two driveways and walkway entrance to the entrance of
               the Swim and Racquet Club
 
   (B)   The area on Gatehouse Lane as set out in subsection (A) shall be
striped and designated with signs as a pedestrian right-of-way from the last
Saturday in May through Labor Day.
(Ord. No. 3-1979, 5-14-79; Amd. Ord. No. 7-1981, 6-8-81)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
40.999
§ 40.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount not less than twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100), each day of violation being considered a separate
violation. Such civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a civil action as
a debt if the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation. The civil
penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with the criminal
penalties authorized.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100),
each day of violation being considered a separate violation.
   (C)   Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked on the public ways may be
removed at the direction of the city to a tow lot designated by the city. The
vehicle may be reclaimed by the owner at the owner’s expense, including all
towing and storage charges and payment of all fines imposed by the city.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 8-6-20)
CHAPTER 41: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE I. STREET NUMBERING
   
41.001   Purpose
   
41.002   Street numbers to be displayed for all property
   
41.003   Single family dwellings
   
41.004   Apartment buildings
   
41.005   Commercial, industrial structures
   
41.006   Enforcement
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC ROADWAYS
   
41.010   Dedication of private roadways
   
41.011   Procedures for requesting dedications
   
41.012   Consideration by Council
 
   
41.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. STREET NUMBERING
§ 41.001 PURPOSE
      In order to provide adequate and prompt fire, police and emergency
medical services to the residents of the city, emergency personnel must be able
to readily identify residential, commercial and industrial structures by their
assigned street numbers at all times during the day and night. Therefore, the
City Council does hereby promulgate reasonable requirements for designating
assigned addresses of all residential, commercial and industrial structures
located within the city. Regulations are set out in this article.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
§ 41.002 STREET NUMBERS TO BE DISPLAYED FOR ALL PROPERTY
   All residential, commercial and industrial property located in the city
shall have conspicuously displayed in accordance with the standards set out in
this article the appropriate street address as assigned by the Jefferson County
Department of Public Works.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
§ 41.003 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLINGS
   For single family dwellings, the following regulations shall apply:
      (A)   The address shall be placed on the front of the residence or in a
place where it is otherwise visible from the nearest fronting road.
      (B)   The address shall be kept free and clear of any obstructions
hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road.
      (C)   The numbers used to affix the address shall be standard Arabic form
in a color distinguishable from its background. The size of the numbers shall
be at least three inches by two inches (3" x 2") or larger if necessary to be
visible from the nearest fronting road. Excepted from this provision are those
existing posted numerals, if the existing numbers are sufficiently visible for
adequate identification of each single family dwelling.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
§ 41.004 APARTMENT BUILDINGS
   For apartment buildings, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   The address shall be placed in a location to insure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area. Placement of the address shall depend upon the location of each
particular apartment building with respect to its fronting road or parking
area.
   (B)   Addresses shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting road or
parking area and shall be kept clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable
visibility from the nearest fronting road or parking area.
   (C)   The numbers used to affix the address shall be in standard Arabic form
in a color distinguishable from its background. The size of the numbers shall
be at least three inches by two inches (3" x 2"), or larger if necessary to be
visible from the nearest fronting road or parking area. Excepted from this
provision are those existing posted numerals if the existing numbers are
sufficiently visible for a adequate identification of each apartment.
   (D)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a comples or other
area are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the owner of
the apartment building shall use a system of identification that is reasonably
calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and emergency
personnel. The Mayor, or an individual designated by him, shall have the
authority to approve the identification system proposed in writing by apartment
building owners. Such written approval obtained from the Mayor, or his
designated agent, in accordance with this section shall be prima facie evidence
of compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
§ 41.005 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES
   For commercial or industrial structures, the following regulations apply:
   (A)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures in a location to insure visibility from the nearest fronting road.
If the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest
fronting road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous location so
as to be visible from the nearest fronting road.
   (B)   The numbers used to affix the address shall be in standard Arabic form
in a color distinguishable from its background. The size of the numbers shall
be at least five inches by three inches (5" x 3"), or larger if necessary to be
visible from the nearest fronting road. Excepted from this provision are those
existing posted numerals if the existing numbers are sufficiently visible for
adequate identification of each commercial or industrial structure.
   (C)   In the event that commercial or industrial structure is located in a
complex or elsewhere not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare,
the owner of the structure shall use a system of identification that is
reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The Mayor, or an individual designated by him, shall have
the authority to approve the identification system proposed in writing by
owners of commercial or industrial structures. Such written approval obtained
from the Mayor, or his designated agent in accordance with this section shall
be prima facie evidence of compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
§ 41.006 ENFORCEMENT
   The Mayor shall designate a person(s), to enforce the provisions of this
article. The person(s) so designated are hereby vested with the authority to
issue citations for violations of this article. The regulations provided in
this article shall be enforced with the intent to ensure that each residential,
commercial, and industrial structure located in the city is clearly identified
by its assigned street address so that emergency and other public service
personnel may promptly identify the structure at all times.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC ROADWAYS
§ 41.010 DEDICATION OF PRIVATE ROADWAYS
   That existing, private roadway proposed for dedication for public use (which
is not created through the provisions of the Jefferson County Subdivision
Regulations) must first comply with the rules and regulations concerning the
construction of roadways (including the required right-of-way) contained in the
Jefferson County Planning Commission Subdivision and Zoning Regulations. In
addition, the roadway must have been constructed in accordance with the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways, Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction. No waiver of any of these
guidelines will be allowed, unless such waiver is specifically approved by the
City Council, along with th dedication application.
(Ord. No. 7-2009, 12-3-09)
§ 41.011 PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING DEDICATIONS
   Any person or entity requesting that a private road be dedicated to public
use must first demonstrate that it has the legal authority to so dedicate (or
that a dedication has already taken place by use as same under KRS 82.400(3))
and that legal boundaries of such roadway are set and legally defined in a
transferable, deedable form. Any person or entity requesting that a private
road be dedicated and accepted to public use must first demonstrate the roadway
in question will in fact serve as an extension of services to residents of the
city. Any person or entity requesting that a private road be dedicated and
accepted to public use must first demonstrate the roadway to be dedicated is
the traveled portion (including right-of-way) of the road and does not include
parking areas or individual driveways.
(Ord. No. 7-2009, 12-3-09)
§ 41.012 CONSIDERATION BY COUNCIL
   The Council, after the applicant satisfies §§
41.010 and
41.011, may, but is not required to , accept and approve the dedication of a
street (defined as the traveled portion of the roadway and its right- of-way),
which was originally established as a private road, on a case by case basis,
after due consideration of the public policy issues associated with such
dedication, such as, but not limited to, present and future costs, engineering
and technical issues, safety, maintenance, and whether the dedication is in
fact an extension of city services to city residences. The city may
additionally require cost sharing from the residences to be directly service as
part of its acceptance, in accordance with KRS 91A.210-270.
(Ord. No. 7-2009, 12-3-09)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
41.999
§ 41.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions
of this article shall be guilty of a violation, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten ($10.00) dollars nor more than
twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. Each day the violation exists shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   In lieu of the penalty set out in subsection (A), a warning citation
may be issued by enforcement personnel.
(Ord. No. 4-1983, 12-12-83)
TITLE 5: PUBLIC REGULATION
CHAPTER 50   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 51   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 52   SIGNAGE
CHAPTER 53   TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 50: NUISANCES
   
50.001   Public purpose
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Property maintenance standards
   
50.004   Responsibility for property maintenance
   
50.005   Enforcement
   
50.006   Emergency cleanup or abatement
   
50.007   Appeals
§ 50.001 PUBLIC PURPOSE
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Douglass Hills hereby finds that it is
necessary to provide for the abatement of conditions which are offensive or
annoying to the senses, detrimental to property values and community
appearance, an obstruction to or interference with the comfortable enjoyment of
adjacent property or premises, or hazardous or injurious to the health, safety
or welfare of the general public in such ways to constitute a public nuisance;
and, to provide standards to safeguard life, health and public welfare in
keeping with the character of the city by allowing for the maintenance of
property and premises for each of the following purposes:
      (1)   To safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the people by
maintaining property and premises in good and appropriate condition;
      (2)   To promote a sound and attractive community appearance; and
      (3)   To enhance the economic value of the community, and each area in
it, through the regulation of the maintenance of property or premises.
   (B)   Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that the purpose of
this chapter is to:
      (1)   Reduce the threat to health, safety, welfare, appearance and
economic value due to the decline in property condition(s) by lawfully
delineating the circumstances under which such condition(s) may be considered
illegal and/or abated; and further finds that
      (2)   Abatement of such condition(s) is in the best interest of the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city because maximum use and
enjoyment of property or premises in proximity to one another depends upon
maintenance of those properties or premises at or above the minimum standard.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined
as follows:
   "ABANDONED." In addition to those definitions provided by state codes, local
ordinances and case law, the term abandoned means and refers to any item, which
has ceased to be used for its designed and intended purpose. The following
factors, among others, will be considered in determining whether or not an item
has been abandoned:
      (1)   Present operability and functional utility;
      (2)   Has ceased to be used for its designated and intended purpose;
      (3)   The date of last effective use;
      (4)   The condition of disrepair or damage;
      (5)   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the
item;
      (6)   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
      (7)   The age and degree of obsolescence;
      (8)   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item versus its market
value; and
      (9)   The nature of the area and location of the item. Items such as
furniture, toys, appliances, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, water heaters, television sets, and the like left outside
the home in view for over forty-eight (48) hours and includes items not
intended for use or storage in an outdoor environment.
   "ABATE." To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the
condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent
as the City Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee
as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances in his/her
judgment shall determine is necessary in the interest of the general health,
safety and welfare of the community.
   "ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE." Any condition, instrument or machine which is unsafe,
unprotected and may prove detrimental to children whether in a building, on the
premises of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This includes any abandoned
wells, shafts, basements or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and motor
vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or structures; or any lumber, trash,
fences, debris or vegetation which may prove hazardous or dangerous to
inquisitive minors.
   "DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." The City Citation or Code Enforcement
Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the City Council
to enforce city ordinances.
   "DISMANTLED." That from which essential equipment, parts or contents have
been removed or stripped and the outward appearance verifies the removal.
   "GARBAGE." The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food and similar animal and vegetable
refuse whether liquid or solid, or any accumulation of any sour, decaying or
putrescent substance, either gas or solid.
   "GOOD REPAIR." External structure elements of buildings being maintained in
a state of repair, which allows that element to provide the functional use for
which it was intended.
   "ILLEGAL DISPLAY OR STORAGE." Items in view that are not in a lawful four
wall with roof enclosure and not intended for seasonal or immediate use on the
property where displayed, items partially or fully concealed with a covering
violate this section, in-view for over 48 hours.
   "INOPERATIVE." Incapable of functioning or producing activity for mechanical
or other reasons.
   "IN-VIEW." Any nuisance that can be seen from any public view or from any
adjacent private property.
   "LIENHOLDER." Any person, as defined in this chapter, who has a recorded
interest in real property, including mortgagee, beneficiary under a deed of
trust, or holder of other recorded liens or claims of interest in real
property.
   "NUISANCE." Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or any condition defined as a nuisance under this chapter.
   "OWNER." The registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom property
tax is assessed on real or personal property, as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county, renter(s), lessor(s) and other occupants
residing permanently or temporarily on property.
   "PERSON." Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver or any other
entity.
   "PREMISES/PROPERTY." Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or
portion of land whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied.
   "RESIDENT." Any person over the age of eighteen (18) who lives part or full
time at the residence where the violation is alleged to have occurred in the
city.
   "SCRAP METAL." Metal pieces or parts no longer being used for its intended
purpose.
   "STAGNANT/POLLUTED WATER." Standing water for longer than four days, without
proper drainage or disbursement.
   "STRUCTURE." Anything constructed, built or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, gates, garages, carports, swimming and wading pools,
patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts and similar recreation
areas.
   "UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE." Any household item, object, etc., or any device
used to carry out a specific function which has served its usefulness (or is no
longer being used) and is more or less in its original form and can no longer
be used for its originally intended purpose or having defective or missing
parts or in such a condition generally as to the unfit for further use or
conveyance.
   "WASTE ITEMS." Boxes, bags, plastic, paper, clothing, discarded or unused
items, trash, filth, waste material (solid or liquid), litter, rubbish, debris,
building materials or any kind not being utilized for a current lawful ongoing
construction project on-site, containers or refuse of any kind left in view for
over forty-eight (48) hours.
   "WEEDS." Unhealthful plant growth such as but not limited to jimson,
burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or any other growth of a like kind or any
plant growth not intended for aesthetic appeal or other legitimate purpose,
such as crops, trees, bushes, flowers or ornamental plants. Whether a certain
plant or plant is "ornamental" shall be solely determined by the City Citation
or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated
by the City Council to enforce city ordinances, after consideration as to
whether the plant and planting, taken as a whole, evidences some reasonably
discernable and clearly recognizable beautification purpose. Evidence of the
ornamental characteristics include, but are not limited to: (1) Defined
planting boundaries; (2) Evidence that the resident actually works on the plant
and plantings regularly to provide for a reasonable landscape scheme; (3) Has
employed landscape professionals in the planning of the plants or plantings;
(4) Can articulate a discernable landscaping scheme for the plants or
plantings; or (5) Has spent money on the creation and upkeep of the plants or
plantings. Evidence of the non-ornamental characteristics include, but are not
limited to: (1) That the plants or plantings grew from wild starts, without
being planted by human hands; (2) That the species of plants are not recognized
as typical landscaping stock for the area; (3) That the resident does not spend
regular time tending the material; (4) That there are no defined boundaries to
the plants or plantings; and (5) That no money has been spent on the plants or
plantings.
   "WRECKED." That which has outward manifestation or appearance of damage to
parts and contents, which mayor may not be essential to operation.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.003 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any owner or other person
in control of said property or premises to keep or maintain property, premises
or rights-of-way in such a manner that any of the following conditions are
found to exist:
   (A)   Abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, inoperable, and discarded objects,
equipment or appliances such as, but not limited to, water heaters,
refrigerators, furniture which is not designed for outdoor use, household
fixtures, machinery, equipment, or cans or containers standing or stored on
property or on sidewalks or streets.
   (B)   Discarded food, garbage, rubbish, refuse.
   (C)   Oil, grease, paint, other petroleum products, hazardous materials,
volatile chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides or waste (solid, liquid
or gaseous), which is determined by the City Citation or Code Enforcement
Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the City Council
to enforce city ordinances to constitute a fire or environmental hazard, or to
be detrimental to human life, health or safety.
   (D)   Lumber (excluding lumber for a construction project on the property
with a valid permit), salvage materials, including but not limited to auto
parts, scrap metals, tires, other materials stored on premises in excess of
seventy-two (72) hours and visible from a public street, walkway, alley or
other public property.
   (E)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures or
grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project. A period of one hundred twenty (120) days without consistent,
sustained effort to complete the project shall be an unreasonable length of
time, without sufficient, specific, written explanation for said delay.
   (F)   Receptacles for discarded materials and recyclables which are left in
view from the public roadway following the day of the regularly scheduled
refuse pick-up for the property; no garbage, yard waste or recycling items
shall be placed out for collection in view of a public street more than twelve
(12) hours prior to the collection day. The containers for such items must be
removed from view of any public street within twelve (12) hours after the day
of collection. Recyclable items which have not been recycled within thirty (30)
days of being deposited on the property which are determined by the City
Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be
designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances to constitute a fire
hazard or to be detrimental to human life, health or safety.
   (G)   Swimming pool, pond, spa, other body of water, or excavation which is
abandoned, unattended, unsanitary, empty, or which is not securely fenced, or
(if not in use) does not have a secure and safe cover, which will not collect
water and is effective and suitable, or which is determined by the City
Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be
designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances to be detrimental to
life, health or safety.
   (H)   Any premises which detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay or is unsafe for the purpose
for which it is being used or is not secured or is improperly secured.
   (I)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit condition to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants or
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residences of
the city. All residences within the city shall have a safe and operable
connection to water, electric/gas, and sewer services. Residents who are in the
process of construction and are in compliance with §
50.003(E) are exempt from this section during the construction.
   (J)   Permits any weeds, or grass growth other than crops, trees or
ornamental plants or shrubs, to grow to a height exceeding six (6) inches. It
shall be the duty of any owner, operator, agent, or occupant, occupying or
controlling property abutting a public street within the City of Douglass
Hills, to maintain all grass to a height of six (6) inches, to remove all
refuse, weeds, trash, waste and litter from the sidewalks, curbing, to the edge
of the pavement of such streets as are adjacent to or abut such property.
   (K)   Permits or causes the interface with any obstruction of a drainage
ditch, device or system as to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper drainage
patterns.
   (L)   Permits the accumulation of ashes, leaves, wood, lumber, limbs, twigs,
storm debris and/or any residue from the burning of any combustible material.
   (M)   All firewood must be stacked in cord like fashion aud no more than two
(2) cords allowed on any lot at one time. No pieces to exceed forty-eight (48)
inches in length. The stack must be at least six (6) inches off the ground,
supported by a minimum of non-decaying supports to permit proper air
circulation and no higher than five (5) feet. Persons who heat primarily with
wood may apply to the city for special storage permission.
   (N)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition that is
likely to, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or
property, or cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property by falling
thereof or of parts thereof.
   (O)   Permits the dropping, deposit, or acquiesce in the dropping,
depositing, scattering of waste material in any manner, in or on any public or
private property any material of any kind, not including normal yard
maintenance material.
   (P)   Permits any condition to exist that is injurious to the public health.
Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Unlawful storage of explosives;
      (2)   Having an uncovered or insecurely covered cellar, well, pit or any
excavation or situated upon any premises in any open lot or plane that any
reasonable or prudent man should realize should be injurious to human health;
      (3)   The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot or other enclosure
in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors;
      (4)   Permits the presence of polluted water, or the accumulation of any
substance that attracts vermin, rodents, insects, or animals or is otherwise
injurious to the public health; or
      (5)   Permits the unlawful burning of any refuse, garbage, or waste or
material of any kind.
   (Q)   Permits any condition to exist that causes a building or grounds not
to be in good repair.
Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Every window; exterior door; basement; porch; roof; eaves;
foundation; exterior wall; exterior stairs; shall be reasonably watertight;
weather tight; bird, animal, and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair;
      (2)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint, which is not lead-based
paint, or by other protective covering or treatment. Any peeling paint is a
violation of this section; and
      (3)   All gutters, shutters, down spouts and any other parts of the
exterior of the home shall be maintained in their original condition and be fit
for their intended purpose.
   (R)   Any other condition on a property which meets the following
requirements: Is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.004 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
   (A)   The owner or resident of any property within the city shall be
responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this chapter and the Code of the City of Douglass Hills,
Metro Louisville Ordinances, Land Development Code, Kentucky Revised Statutes
and the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the City Citation
or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated
by the City Council to enforce city ordinances in any manner authorized by this
chapter or by any other law, including but not limited to issuance of criminal
citations, civil actions and abatement.
   (C)   Abatement of public nuisances:
      (1)   Non-exclusive authority to abate. The city may choose to abate any
public nuisance or violation of the city code through any of the abatement
methods set forth in the city code or in other local, state or federal law, and
nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as limiting, prejudicing,
or adversely affecting the city's ability to concurrently or consecutively use
any of those proceedings as the city may deem are applicable. Proceeding under
this section will not preclude from city from proceeding under other sections
of this chapter. Whenever the City Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or
other person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce
city ordinances determines that any condition exists in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, he/she may take enforcement action pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   Right of entry. The City Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or
other person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce
city ordinances may enter any property or premises at all times to perform any
duty imposed upon him/her by this chapter if he/she has cause to believe a
violation of provisions of this chapter is occurring.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.005 ENFORCEMENT
   Criminal or civil penalty. Pursuant to the city's prosecutorial discretion,
the city may enforce violations of the provisions of this chapter as criminal,
civil or abatement actions.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day, during which any
such offense is committed, continued or allowed shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Each and every offense under this chapter is punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100) for the first
offense;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500) for the second
offense of the same or similar provision within one-year period; or
      (3)   A fine no less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each
additional offense, after the second, of the same or similar provision of this
chapter within a one-year period of the first offense.
   (C)   Penalty for misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of a misdemeanor
under this chapter shall be subject to imprisonment for a period of not
exceeding six (6) months; or, by both fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Civil penalties. Any person who intentionally, accidentally, or
negligently violates any provision of this chapter may be civilly liable to the
city in the sum of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) but not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000) per day for each day in which such offense occurs
or continues. The city may petition the Jefferson District Court to impose,
assess and recover such sums.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.006 EMERGENCY CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT
   (A)   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, when the City
Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be
designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances, finds and determines
that the severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she may clean
up or abate violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or abatement may be
recovered by the city in a civil action. Such emergency cleanup or abatement
will not relieve the person of further action which may be taken by the City
Council or its duly authorized agents and representatives, including but not
limited to, liability for any violations of this chapter, or any other
applicable provisions of state law and local ordinances.
   (B)   Costs of enforcement. In any civil action commenced by the city under
this chapter, the city shall be entitled to recover from the defendant of such
action, reasonable attorneys' fees, costs of suit, any other costs of
enforcement, including but not limited to, inspection costs and cleanup or
abatement costs.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures and notice.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the
enforcement of this ordinance under KRS 381.770 as follows:
         (a)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the City Citation or
Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by
the City Council to enforce city ordinances shall give five (5) days written
notice to any one or more or all: the owner, operator, agent, occupant or
person having control or management of the property to remedy such situation.
         (b)   The notice shall be served upon the responsible person as stated
above, by mail, or by personal service. If by mail, it shall be addressed to
the last known address of the owner of the said property, as it appears on the
current tax assessment roll. The failure of any or all of the addresses to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Further, the
posting of notice of a hearing or order pursuant to this chapter shall be
conclusively deemed to be adequate notice to any and all occupants, users or
possessors of the property or its contents, and the failure of any such
occupant, user or possessor to see, read, understand or otherwise receive the
notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Upon the failure to the
owner of the property to comply, the city is authorized to send employees or
persons hired by the city upon said property to remedy the situation.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the City Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as
may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances, shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to this chapter and KRS 381.770, and shall be recorded
in the Office of the Jefferson County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
personas from the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter
until paid at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month, compounded
monthly, and may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in the previous sections of
this chapter or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property
upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be
personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recover of a debt
owed.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
§ 50.007 APPEALS
   Any action taken by the City Citation or Code Enforcement Officer, or other
person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city
ordinances may be appealed to the City Council by any person cited hereunder.
Such appeal must be in writing, stating with specificity the grounds of the
appeal and it must be filed with the City Clerk within the same time allowed
for abatement (without extension). The grounds for the appeal shall be stated
in such appeal in detail. Such appeal shall be heard by the City Council within
sixty (60) days of it being filed with the City Clerk. While such appeal is
pending, the abatement notice shall be held in abeyance.
(Ord. 9-2017, 12-7-17)
CHAPTER 51: ANIMALS
   
51.001   Control of dogs
   
51.002   Keeping, riding horses prohibited
   
51.003   Sanitary disposal of animal feces
   
51.999   Penalty
§ 51.001 CONTROL OF DOGS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to
permit the dog to be within the city without being leashed and/or under the
complete control of the owner or agent.
   (B)   Every owner or person in charge of a dog shall keep the dog under
their control in such a manner as to prevent the dog’s barking from disturbing
occupants or users of surrounding property.
(Ord. No. 13-1976, 4-12-76; Amd. Ord. 1-2006, 4-10-06)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
51.999
§ 51.002 KEEPING, RIDING HORSES PROHIBITED
   No property owner or any other person shall keep, ride, or walk any horse,
pony, mule or other similar type of animal within the city limits.
(Ord. No. 2-1975, - - ; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1975, 5-5-75)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
51.999
§ 51.003 SANITARY DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL FECES
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog, cat
or other four-footed mammal to permit or allow such animal to excrete manure or
feces on city property, in parks, or on any other public property or on any
private property other than that of the owner or person in charge or control of
such animal without the permission of the owner of said property, or on any
streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way within the city, unless the owner or
person in control of such animal immediately removes all feces deposited by
such animal and disposes of same in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons with disabilities which
prevent their compliance with this section.
(Ord. No. 1-2006, 4-10-06)
§ 51.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Anyone violating the provision of §
51.001 shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifteen ($15.00) dollars nor more than fifty
($50.00) dollars.
(Ord. No. 13-1976, 4-12-76)
   (B)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
51.002 shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for each violation plus costs.
(Ord. No. 2-1975, - - ; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1975, 5-5-75)
CHAPTER 52: SIGNAGE
Section
   
52.001   Signage regulations
   
52.999   Penalty
§ 52.001 SIGNAGE REGULATIONS
   Any signs located within the city limits shall conform to the following
regulations.   
   (A)   No signage of any kind shall be affixed to any street sign or pole or
post which is the property of the City of Douglass Hills.
   (B)   For sale signage:
      (1)   Property owners may put one "for sale" sign by owner or licensed
agent/broker in front of their residence to advertise the property for sale.
      (2)   Directional arrow for sale signs are not permitted within the city
limits.
   (C)   Open house sign:
      (1)   Open house signage in the front yard of the residence may be
installed six (6) days prior to the scheduled open house.
      (2)   Directional open house signs may be installed at the entrances of
the city and at the intersections leading to the address of the open house up
to three (3) days prior to the scheduled opening. Signs shall be removed at the
conclusion of the open house.
   (D)   Yard/garage sale signs:
      (1)   Yard sale/garage and directional sale signs in the front yard may
be put out three (3) days prior to the sale.
      (2)   Directional arrow yard sale signs may be installed at the entrances
of the city and at intersections leading to the yard sale. Directional signs
are only allowed to be installed as stated above in the section of the city in
which the yard/garage sale is located.
      (3)   All yard/garage sale and directional signs shall be removed at the
conclusion of the sale.
   (E)   For rent/rental signs:
      (1)   Property owners may put one "for rent" sign by owner or a licensed
agent/broker
in front of their residence to advertise the property for rent.
      (2)   No other "for rent" or rental signs are allowed within the city
limits or in the city right-of-way.
   (F)   Contractor/advertisement signs:
      (1)   Contractor/advertisement signs for the purpose of advertising are
permitted in the front yard of the address for thirty (30) days after the work
is completed.
      (2)   Contractor/advertisement signs are not allowed at any time at the
entrances to the city or on any city owned property or right-of-way.
   (G)   Event signs in the City of Douglass Hills maybe used within the city
for those events that have been approved and scheduled with the city. Examples
such as weddings, reunions that are using the city facilities. These signs must
be removed at the conclusion of the event.
   (H)   Political signs shall be removed within three (3) days after the
election. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or resident to
remove any political sign not removed by the candidate.
   (I)   All signage shall be limited to the specific section in the city in
which the property is located.
(Ord. 1-2019, 2-7-19)
§ 52.999 PENALTY
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not less than twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100).
Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate and
distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or continues, and a
separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
(Ord. 1-2019, 2-7-19)
CHAPTER 53: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
53.001   Applicability
   
53.002   Planting, maintenance and trimming standards
                                       
Cross reference:
   Tree Board, §
22.102
§ 53.001 APPLICABILITY
   The city owns all rights-of-way within the city that are not a Metro
Louisville owned through-road or a Commonwealth of Kentucky owned highway.
Certain open space areas are also owned by the city. The dedicated right-of-way
and open space areas are shown on the record plats of the subdivision and the
city has exclusive power and authority over trees and shrubs within its wholly
owned rights-of-way, parks, and open space areas.
(Ord. 3-2020, 5-7-20; Amd. Ord. No. 7-2024, 2-6-25)
§ 53.002 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND TRIMMING STANDARDS
   (A)   Street right-of-ways and public areas. The city shall have the right
to plant, trim, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the
right-of-way of all streets and public areas, including parks and common areas,
as may be necessary for public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry
and beauty of such public ground. The city will assess the condition/damage and
perform the partial or whole removal of any tree within the right-of way or
public area that, due to a storm event or other natural causes, is damaged so
as to block a public roadway, driveway, or sidewalk. The city will pay all
costs associated with this removal. The city maintains trees planted in the
street right-of-way and residents are encouraged to contact the city concerning
maintenance issues. The city also reserves the right to seek the services of an
outside tree consultant to determine the best tree care practices. No person
shall be allowed to prune, top, or remove a tree within street right-of-ways or
public areas without the consent of the Tree Board and/or the City Tree
Consultant. The Tree Board and/or the City Tree Consultant may select locations
in the city for planting new trees in public areas and rights-of-way.
   (B)   Planting guidelines. The Tree Board suggests (but are not limited to)
these preferred species to be planted in the city street rights-of-way because
of their vertical root growth and tolerance: Black Gum, Zelkova, Gingko (male),
Aile, Yoshima Cherry, and Red Maple. The Tree Board may be consulted in order
to establish the best planting practices including distances and clearances
from utilities, sidewalks, fireplugs, and other potential obstructions.
   (C)   Trees on private property. Property owners are responsible for
removing or trimming any tree or shrub that extends over, or obstructs, any
street, sidewalk, city sign or right-of-way. Property owners are also
responsible for removing or trimming any diseased, dead, or dying tree or shrub
limbs; which if it falls, could obstruct the right-of-way, endanger life or
limb, or impact utilities. If a hazardous condition is identified, the city can
consult an arbor specialist to determine whether any tree or shrub meets these
hazardous criteria and issue instructions/notice for pruning or removal, which
shall be scheduled within 30 days of said notice. The homeowner shall bear
private property tree costs. The city reserves the right, with proper prior
notice given, to take action to remove a dangerous tree which is on private
property if no action is taken to abate the danger by the homeowner. When a
resident chooses to remove a tree on private property, the city encourages each
resident to add at least one new tree as a replacement. An intact tree canopy
ensures long term sustainability by providing storm water interception, soil
conservation, air quality improvement, and temperature management for home and
outdoor activities.
   (D)   Maintenance of sidewalks and drainage. It shall be unlawful for the
owner or resident of any property abutting any public way to permit weeds or
non-ornamental growth to grow or remain in the area between his or her property
line and the paved portion of the street and it shall be the duty of such
abutting owner, or resident, to maintain the grass in the unpaved portion of
the public way adjacent to his or her property and to keep sidewalks and
drainage swales adjacent to said property free from obstruction.
(Ord. 3-2020, 5-7-20; Amd. Ord. No. 7-2024, 2-6-25)
TITLE 6: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 60   BUSINESS LICENSES
CHAPTER 61   TAX PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 62   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 63   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 64   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
CHAPTER 60: BUSINESS LICENSES
   
60.001   Permit required
   
60.999   Penalty
§ 60.001 PERMIT REQUIRED
   (A)   Permit requirement.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation shall solicit in person payment for
services or material goods or distribute printed materials within the city
limits without first obtaining a permit issued by the City Council. No permit
shall be issued unless each individual requesting the permit has already
received a Metro Louisville permit.
      (2)   The fee for the permit required by the city shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council by municipal order.
      (3)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
      (4)   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire ten (10) days
after the date of issuance thereof. Each person may apply for one (1) and only
one (1) permit per calendar year. Permits are only good for daylight hours, no
solicitation is allowed after dark.
      (5)   Non-profit, charitable and civic groups are exempt from the permit
requirement, if they have received prior written confirmation from the city
that they are indeed a non-profit, charitable, or civic group.
      (6)   The section does not apply to those making delivery of goods
ordered by city residents.
   (B)   Application procedure.
      (1)   All applicants for permits required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items;
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and any person who will be
soliciting in the city;
         (b)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (c)   The local address of such individual;
         (d)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (e)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
         (f)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (g)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on applicant's business;
         (h)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered;
         (i)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (j)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
         (k)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business; and
         (l)   Whether or not the applicant or any individual identified in
division (B) (1)(a) and (b) above has been convicted of any crime or
misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the penalty assessed for
each offense.
         (m)   A copy of the approved permit from Metro Louisville and copy of
the photo ID of each and every person who will be soliciting in the city, who
is also permitted by Metro Louisville for door to door sales. No one may be
considered for a city permit unless and until he or she, as a prerequisite for
consideration, produces a valid, in force, Metro permit.
      (2)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor permits may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (B)(1) above:
         (a)   A description of the applicant;
         (b)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the
business; including its registration number, if any.
      (3)   All applicants for permits required by this section shall attach to
their application the following:
         (a)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising
proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
         (b)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any,
for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to
act as such representative.
      (4)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to
their application, in addition to any attachments required under division (B)
(3), a statement from a physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
      (5)   No person, business entity, corporation, partnership or other
individual shall operate a motorized vehicle within the city for the purpose of
selling any product, service, merchandise, or material from such vehicle while
it is located in the streets of the city, since such activity is hereby deemed
to constitute a health and safety hazard; unless that person first receives
special authorization from the city.
   (C)   Standards for issuance.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
      (2)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare. In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant that will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application, include, but are
not limited to:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
         (f)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
   (D)   Revocation procedure. Any permit or permit granted under this chapter
may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards
herein. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the permitee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (E)   Standards for revocation. A permit granted under this chapter may be
revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the permit application;
or
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the permit;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the permitee of any felony, or conviction of the
pertnitee of any misdemeanor involving more turpitude;
      (5)   Conducting the business permitted in an unlawful manner or in such
a way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general
welfare of the public; or
      (6)   Denial, revocation, non-renewal of the Louisville Metro permit.
   (F)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under the foregoing divisions
(C) - (E) shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Council, within fourteen (14) days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in division (D).
      (2)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
   (G)   Exhibition of identification.
      (1)   Any permit issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one (1) place within the city shall be used to conduct the business
permitted, separate permits shall be issued for each place.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit to each peddler or
solicitor permitted under this chapter. The permit shall contain the words
"Permitted Peddler" or "Permitted Solicitor", the expiration date of the permit
and the number of the permit. The permit shall be kept with the permittee
during such time as he in engaged in the business permitted.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 3-3-11)
§ 60.999 PENALTY
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
set forth shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 3-3-11)
CHAPTER 61: TAX PROCEDURES
ARTICLE I. AD VALOREM TAXATION
   
61.001   Assessment date fixed
   
61.002   County assessment to be used
   
61.003   City Clerk directed to prepare tax bills
   
61.004   Treasurer to collect
   
61.005   Funds to be used for operating purposes
   
61.006   Penalty interest to be assessed if unpaid
   
61.007   Lien authorized
   
61.008   Schedule of rates
ARTICLE I. AD VALOREM TAX
§ 61.001 ASSESSMENT DATE FIXED
   For ad valorem taxation, unless otherwise fixed by the City Council, the
assessment date for all real property located within the city limits and
subject to taxation shall be January 1 of each year.
§ 61.002 COUNTY ASSESSMENT TO BE USED
   For each year, unless otherwise authorized by the City Council, the
Jefferson County assessment is hereby adopted as the official assessment of
real and personal property for all property located within the city.
§ 61.003 CITY CLERK DIRECTED TO PREPARE TAX BILLS
   (A)   For each year, the City Clerk shall obtain a true and correct copy of
the county assessment of all real property located within the city limits.
   (B)   For all property subject to taxation, the City Clerk shall prepare, or
cause the preparation of, tax bills based on the assessment values prepared by
the county. The City Clerk shall mail, or cause the mailing of, tax bills which
show the lot, assessed value of property, name of property owner, the ad
valorem tax rate as set annually by the City Council by ordinance, total tax
due and the date the tax is due.
   (C)   Unless otherwise authorized by City Council, the tax bills shall be
mailed no later than October 15 of each year for the year of assessment.
§ 61.004 TREASURER TO COLLECT
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall collect, or supervise the collection of, ad
valorem tax as set out in this article.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall receive all remittances authorized by this
article, and shall give a regular accounting of collectors as required by law.
                          
Cross reference:
   City Treasurer, duties of, §
21.101
§ 61.005 PENALTY, INTEREST TO BE ASSESSED OF UNPAID
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by Council, in the event taxes are unpaid
by December 31 of each year, a penalty in an amount equal to ten percent (10%)
of the total tax payable plus interest at a rate of one and one-half percent (1
1/2%) per month or part of a month, compounded monthly, is hereby levied.
   (B)   After December 31 of each year, unless otherwise authorized by City
Council, the City Treasurer shall collect the total tax payable plus penalty
and interest in accordance with this section.
§ 61.006 LIEN AUTHORIZED
   Any unpaid tax assessed and payable under the provisions of this article
shall constitute a lien against the property until the tax due and payable plus
interest and penalty is paid.
§ 61.007 FUNDS TO BE USED FOR OPERATING PURPOSES
   The tax authorized by and collected under the provisions of this article
shall be used for general operating purposes of the city.
§ 61.008 SCHEDULE OF RATES
   For a schedule of ordinances setting as valorem taxation rates as provided
by this article, see Table of Special Ordinances, Table 8.
CHAPTER 62: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REGULATIONS
   
62.001   License required
   
62.002   Licenses; businesses to be regulated by state law
   
62.003   Distilled spirits, wine licenses; fee required
   
62.004   Malt beverage license; fee required
   
62.005   Sunday sale license authorized
   
62.006   Alcoholic beverage commissioner
   
62.999   Penalty
§ 62.001 LICENSE REQUIRED
   Within the city limits, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to do any act authorized by any alcoholic malt beverage, wine or
distilled spirits license with respect to the manufacture, storage, sale,
purchase, transportation or other traffic in alcoholic beverages unless he
holds a license authorizing the act from the Commonwealth, the county, and the
city.
(Ord. No. 1-1982, 4-5-82; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1982, 8-23-82)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
62.999
§ 62.002 LICENSES; BUSINESSES TO BE REGULATED BY STATE LAW
   The business authorized by the licenses provided in this chapter shall
correspond to that of the corresponding licenses authorized by KRS Chapter 243
and KRS Chapter 244, and specifically including the definitions contained in
KRS 241.010.
(Ord. No. 1-1982, 4-5-82; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1982, 8-23-82)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Licenses and taxes, KRS Chapter 243
   Prohibitions, restrictions and regulations, KRS Chapter 446
   Definitions, KRS 241.010
§ 62.003 DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINE LICENSES; FEE REQUIRED
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved and issued by the
City ABC Administrator and shall be those fees authorized under KRS 243.070,
set out below and as amended from time to time. All license fees from licenses
issued under this chapter shall be collected by the City ABC Administrator.
      LICENSE TYPE                           FEE PER YEAR
   (A)   Distiller's license, per annum                     $500.00
   (B)   Rectifier's license, per annum                     $3,000.00
   (C)   Wholesaler's distilled spirit and wine license, per
annum         $3,000.00
   (D)   Quota retail package license, per annum                  $1,200.00
   (E)   Quota retail drink license, per annum                  $1,600.00
   (F)   Special temporary license, per event                  $266.66
   (G)   Nonquota Type 1 retail drink license (includes               $2,000.00
      distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum
   (H)   Nonquota Type 2 retail drink license (includes               $1,800.00
      distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum
   (I)   Nonquota Type 3 retail drink license (includes               $300.00
      distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum
   (J)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per
event   $200.00
   (K)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum               $300.00
   (L)   Extended Hours Supplemental License, per annum            $2,000.00
   (M)   Caterer's license, per annum                     $800.00
   (N)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per
annum         $1,000.00
   (O)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
      (1)   Brewer's license, per annum                  $500.00
      (2)   Microbrewery license, per annum                  $500.00
      (3)   Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum            $400.00
      (4)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per
annum      $200.00
      (5)   Nonquota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per
annum   $200.00
      (6)   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum         $100.00
   (P)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits,
wine,         $ 1,800.00
      and malt beverages), per annum
   (Q)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits,
wine,         $ 1,800.00
      and malt beverages), per annum
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-13)
§ 62.004 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE; FEE REQUIRED
   Malt beverage licenses may be issued by the city. The license types and fees
payable for the licenses are hereby authorized as follows:
      LICENSE TYPE      FEE PER YEAR
   (A)   Brewer's license         500.00
   (B)   Distributor's license         400.00
   (C)   Retailer's license         200.00
   (D)   Special temporary license      12.50 per month
         or part of a month
(Ord. No. 1-1982, 4-5-82; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1982, 8-23-82)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
62.999
§ 62.005 SUNDAY SALE LICENSE AUTHORIZED
   The city Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall issue a special Sunday sale
retail drink license to any person who holds a license to sell liquor or wine
at retail by the drink, and who is otherwise qualified for the license under
the provisions of KRS Chapter 243 and KRS 244.290(4).
(Ord. No. 4-1982, 8-23-82)
                          
Statutory reference:
   Licenses and fees, KRS Chapter 243
   Hours of sale, KRS 244.290(4)
Cross reference:
   Alcoholic Beverage Commissioner, §
21.002 and §
62.006
§ 62.006 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE COMMISSIONER
   The duties of the Alcoholic Beverage Commissioner shall be discharged by the
City Clerk as set out in §
21.002.
§ 62.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who, by himself or acting through another, directly or
indirectly violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined, for the first offense, not less than one hundred
($100.00) dollars nor more than two hundred ($200.00) dollars, or shall be
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than six months, or both. For the
second and subsequent violations, any person violating the provisions of this
chapter where no other penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and. upon conviction thereof, shall be fined no less than two hundred ($200.00)
dollars nor more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars, or shall be imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than six months, or both. Each sale in violation
of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Penalties provided in this section shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender's license.
(Ord. No. 1-1982, 4-5-82; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1982, 8-23-82)
CHAPTER 63: INSURANCE COMPANIES
   
63.001   Imposition of license fee
   
63.002   Fees to be paid to general revenue fund
   
63.003   Life insurance companies
   
63.004   All other insurance companies
   
63.005   Due date; interest and refunds
   
63.006   Written breakdown of collections
   
63.007   Inspection of records and accounts
   
63.008   Liability of agents
   
63.999   Penalty
§ 63.001 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE
   Imposition of license fee. There is hereby imposed on each insurance company
a license fee (hereinafter referred to as a local government premiums tax,
"LGPT"), for the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the
corporate limits of the city, on a calendar-year basis, based upon the
following:
   (A)   "Premiums" is defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the "base
fee"):
 
             Fire and Casualty                                    All Other
            Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life Risks Taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate 5%       5%        5%      5%            0%     5%   5%
 
The base fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the base fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of seven and one-half percent (7.5%) is hereby imposed by the city upon each
insurance company on the premiums for each class of insurance listed in
division (B) above, provided that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate
from 5% to 12.5% effective July 1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance
listed in division (B) above. In the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective
July 1, 2019 is raised to an amount different than 12.5%, but more than the
city's base fee, the city hereby imposes an additional license fee on each
class of insurance listed in division (B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit
allowable under KRS 91A.080(12). In the event the Louisville Metro LGPT
effective July 1, 2019 remains five percent (5%) for any class of insurance
listed in division (B) above, the city's base fee shall apply.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.002 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.003 LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES
   The license tee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.004 ALL OTHER INSURANCE COMPANIES
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of
business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C.223(c)(2)
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.005 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter;
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days' notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.006 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.007 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the City of Douglass Hills or a representative
thereof to make inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or
insurance company to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of
collections.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.008 LIABILITY OF AGENTS
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
§ 63.999 PENALTY
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 2-2019, 3-7-19)
CHAPTER 64: PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
   
64.001   Definitions
   
64.002   Regulations and conditions of use
   
64.003   Permits
   
64.004   Exceptions
   
64.005   Storage pods and dumpsters
 
   
64.999   Penalty
§ 64.001 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless
inconsistent with the text or unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. Shall mean and include any type of
storage structure, including but not limited to:
      (1)   PORTABLE ON DEMAND STORAGE UNITS. Containers without permanently
attached wheels which are transported by truck to and from desired locations
and used primarily for storage commonly known as PODS (Portable On Demand
Storage);
      (2)   VEHICLES OR TRAILERS.  Whose primary purpose on the property is to
store personal property;
      (3)   TEMPORARY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.  Not otherwise covered by the
restrictions of Chapter 70 of this code;
      (4)   DUMPSTERS. Movable containers that are used to store items or
debris pending their removal from the property;
      (5)   Trash cans which hold no more than one hundred (100) gallons are
not subject to this chapter;
   This chapter does not apply to any of the above items or similar items which
are located in an enclosed area, such as an enclosed garage.
(Ord. No. 5-2007, 8-11-08)
§ 64.002 REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF USE
   (A)   No temporary portable storage container as defined herein shall be
allowed to be located on or remain on any residential property in the city
without first securing a permit from the city.
   (B)   Temporary portable storage containers shall not be placed on any
public street, easement, right-of-way, sidewalk, designated fire lane or
unpaved surface.
   (C)   Temporary portable storage containers shall be placed only on hard
surfaces such as asphalt or concrete.
   (D)   Temporary portable storage containers shall not be placed in such a
manner as to create road hazards or in such a way as to impede vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic or parking.
   (E)   No more than one (1) temporary portable storage container shall be
placed on any residential property at any one (1) time.
   (F)   The temporary portable storage containers may contain no commercial
advertising other than the name, address and telephone number of the provider
of the unit. Any graffiti on the container must be removed within forty-eight
(48) hours.
   (G)   Temporary portable storage containers may be placed on a specific
residential lot for not more than thirty (30) consecutive days on not more than
two occasions in any twelve (12)-month period.
(Ord. No. 5-2007, 8-11-08)
§ 64.003 PERMITS
   (A)   A permit shall be issued for a maximum of thirty (30) days from the
earlier of;
      (1)   The date of issuance or
      (2)   The date on which the portable storage container was placed on the
property.
   (B)   No more than two (2) permits shall be issued for the location of a
portable storage container on the same lot during the same calendar year if the
lot is under the same ownership.
   (C)   Permits may be obtained at the City Hall and shall state the date of
issuance and the expiration date of the permit.
   (D)   The permit shall be posted on or near the portable storage container
so that it can be easily read by an enforcement officer.
   (E)   The cost of a thirty (30)-day permit is shall be set out in a fee
schedule as amended from time to time. In the event that the permit is not
obtained within two (2) days after the container is placed on the property a
penalty of ten ($10.00) dollars per day will be added to the permit fee.
   (F)   Persons who have portable storage containers on their property at the
time this chapter goes into effect will have five (5) days in which to obtain a
permit without paying a daily penalty.
(Ord. No. 5-2007, 8-11-08)
§ 64.004 EXCEPTIONS
   In the case of emergencies, whether man made or acts of God, which cause
substantial damage to property, reasonable allowances will be made for
extensions of time beyond that which is normally permitted by this chapter to
assist in recovery, restoration, mitigation of further damage and construction.
A permit will still be required.
(Ord. No. 5-2007, 8-11-08)
§ 64.005 STORAGE PODS AND DUMPSTERS
   (A)   Temporary storage units and temporary dumpster units in all zoning
districts shall be allowed for longer than seventy-two (72) hours only upon the
issuance of a permit by the city. Permits shall be displayed on the outside of
the container in such manner as to be plainly visible from the nearest street.
The fee for permits shall be fifteen dollars ($15) per unit.
   (B)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners of
the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to he located, and must contain
all relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which
the unit is to be rented. The permit application shall be accompanied by a
drawing showing where the unit is to be located. Whenever possible, the unit
must be located on a hard surface and on the lot behind the front wall of the
principal structure. The unit shall be located no closer than ten (10) feet to
any property line. The unit shall not be in any required rear, front or side
yard, or in any public right-of-way. If the lot configuration makes it
impossible for the storage unit to be placed, a case-by-case review of the
placement shall be made by the city as to whether to issue a special permit for
another location on the lot, or adjacent to the lot, giving due regard to the
public health, safety and aesthetics.
   (C)   No temporary storage or dumpster unit may be used to contain any
hazardous material. Any possible hazardous material must be disclosed to the
city at the time the permit application is made so that it may be reviewed by
the proper city official prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (D)   Storage and dumpster units must be in good condition, with no
significant rust or deterioration. They cannot be greater than eight (8) feet
in height, ten (10) feet in width, and twenty (20) feet in length. No more than
two (2) units can be placed on any residential lot at one (1) time.
   (E)   Permits are good for one (1) period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
At the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, applicants may seek to extend
their permits for one (1) additional thirty (30) day period by seeking an
extension for cause from the city at a cost of twenty-five ($25). One (1)
permit and one (1) extension may be granted per lot, per calendar year.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Industrial, commercial, office, office residential and multi-family
residential zoned property is exempt from this regulation as it relates to
dumpsters only, as long as the dumpster is located on the site in full
compliance with the general development/detailed development plan for the site,
binding elements, and current regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville
Zoning Regulations.
      (2)   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or
other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the Mayor shall be allowed to suspend
the enforcement of this chapter as to the city as a whole, or areas of the
city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with the
emergency conditions.
      (3)   Due to the physical requirements of the construction or
reconstruction of buildings and houses, special rules shall govern both the
temporary storage units and dumpsters at construction or reconstruction sites.
On any site on which a building permit is to be issued, prior to the city
issuing a letter of compliance, the applicant shall submit all information
required under divisions (A) and (B) of this section. However, the Mayor is
authorized to extend the time the units may remain on site, the number of units
allowed and the locations where they may be placed. This decision shall be
made, on a case-by-case basis, with due regard to the physical limitations of
the work to be accomplished on the site.
(Ord. No. 2-2020, passed 6-4-20) Penalty, see §
64.999
§ 64.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone found to be in violation of this chapter, or any provision
thereof, shall be subject to a civil fine, as set out by fee schedule, for each
violation, and each day for which a violation exists shall be deemed a separate
violation for which a separate fine may be assessed. A separate fine shall
apply to each day the portable storage container remains on the property after
a legally obtained permit expires.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
64.005 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount not less than
twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100). Any continuing
violation of §
64.005 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
(Ord. No. 5-2007, 8-11-08; Amd. Ord. No. 2-2020, passed 6-4-20)
TITLE 7: BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Certification official to be designated
   
70.003   Certificate of approval required
   
70.004   Procedure for obtaining certificate of approval
   
70.005   Homeowner's association to register; notification of application for
certificate required
   
70.006   Fees for certificate of approval authorized
   
70.007   [Reserved]
   
70.008   Certificate to be posted
   
70.009   Certificate expiration; renewal authorized
   
70.010   Work on project after expiration of certificate prohibited
   
70.011   Responsibilities of certificate applicant
   
70.012   Stop work order authorized; notice required
   
70.013   Variance authorized
   
70.014   Building permit may be required in addition to certificate of approval
   
70.015   Enforcement
ARTICLE II. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
   
70.100   Building restrictions
   
70.101   Scope
   
70.102   Compliance with other regulations
   
70.103   [Reserved]
   
70.104   Existing structures
 
   
70.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply, unless
the context requires a different meaning.
   "BUILDING." A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and for
the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, materials or property of any
kind. When separated by a division wall without openings, each portion of
building shall be deemed a separate building.
   "STRUCTURE." Includes anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires location on the ground or its being permanently attached to something
having a location on the ground; and includes, but is not limited to, swimming
pools, signs, satellite dishes, outbuildings, and poles of a height of fifteen
(15) feet or more.
   The terms "STRUCTURE" and "BUILDING" are meant to be used interchangeably
throughout this chapter. Regulations required for one shall be applicable to
the other.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
§ 70.002 CERTIFICATION OFFICIAL TO BE DESIGNATED
   The City Council shall, from time to time, designate a certification
official to issue certificates of approval under the provisions of this
chapter.
                          
Cross reference:
   Procedure for obtaining certificate, §
70.004
   Enforcement, §
70.014
§ 70.003 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL REQUIRED
   (A)   No building or structure within the city shall be constructed or
modified externally without the owner first obtaining a certificate of approval
from the city.
   (B)   A certificate of approval shall be issued only after an owner has
shown that the building or modification of any structure shall comply with all
applicable city regulations as provided in this code, or amendments to this
code, or as otherwise provided by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.004 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
   (A)   Plans to be submitted.
      (1)   A full set of detailed plans and specifications for the
construction of any building or structure, or addition to any existing building
or structure, or the wrecking, demolition or removal, by any means, of any
building or structure, shall be submitted to the Certification Official prior
to any construction and shall include, but not be limited to, excavation,
concrete, framing, and any other action or work toward completion of a
structure, addition, remodeling or demolition.
      (2)   All plans submitted for certification shall include a drawing or
plat plan showing a lot plan, the location of the building on the lot, accurate
dimensions of the building and lot, and other information as may be required by
the City Council. All lots shall be properly staked by a competent surveyor.
Although staking is permitted, it does not assure issuance of a certificate of
approval.
   (B)   Certification Official to review plans.
      The Certification Official shall consider plans and specifications, as
required by subsection (A), to determine if the proposed building will comply
with the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances or regulations
promulgated by the city. The Certification Official's review shall not include
a review of plans and specifications to determine the sufficiency of the
structural design or compliance with the provisions of the Kentucky Building
Code. The issuance of a certificate of approval shall in no way indicate a
determination of structural sufficiency or compliance with the Kentucky
Building Code.
   (C)   Issuance of certificate of approval authorized.
      If the Certification Official determines that the plans and
specifications comply with the provisions of this chapter, he shall issue a
certificate of approval according to the following:
      (1)   After the homeowners' association, if applicable, has notified the
Certification Official, pursuant to §
70.005, that it does not oppose the issuance of a certificate of approval; or
      (2)   Ten (10) calendar days after the application for a certificate of
approval was filed with the city, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
§ 70.005 HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION TO REGISTER; NOTIFICATION OF APPLICATION FOR
CERTIFICATE REQUIRED
   (A)   Homeowners' association identified with lots or subdivisions located
within the city may register with the City Clerk pursuant to this section.
   (B)   For any area of the city where a homeowners' association has
registered, the Certification Official shall, within two (2) business days of
the date of an application for a certificate of approval pursuant to §
70.003, notify the homeowners' association representative of the request. A
representative of the homeowners' association may then obtain, from the City
Clerk, copies of the documents submitted with the application for a certificate
of approval.
   (C)   The homeowners' association shall promptly act to determine whether it
will oppose the construction for which a certificate of approval has been
sought. If the Certification Official determines that the plans and
specifications for which a Certificate of Approval is sought are in compliance
with the ordinances of the City, he shall issue the Certificate when it has
been approved by the homeowners' association or ten (10) calendar days have
elapsed since the application for Certificate of Approval was filed with the
City, whichever shall occur first.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
§ 70.006 FEES FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL AUTHORIZED
   Fees payable to the city for certificates of approval shall be as follows:
      Type   Fee
   (A) Single Family Units   $ 115.00
   (B) Multi-Family Units   $0.05 per sq. ft.
   (C) Commercial Units, Office Units and other public or   $0.05 per sq. ft.
      private structures
   (D) Additions or improvements to single family units   $0.05 per sq. ft.
   (E) All others   $25.00
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1986, 7-7-86; Amd. Ord. No. 7-
1998, 10-12-98)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.007 [RESERVED]
§ 70.008 CERTIFICATE TO BE POSTED
   The original certificate of approval or a legible copy of the certificate of
approval shall be displayed on the premises in a conspicuous location when
construction or demolition begins, and shall remain displayed during the entire
period of construction or demolition, whichever shall apply.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.009 CERTIFICATE EXPIRATION; RENEWAL AUTHORIZED
   (A)   A certificate of approval shall expire or terminate three (3) months
from the date of issue unless a building permit, if required, has been obtained
and the construction of authorized improvement(s) has in good faith begun. If
the certificate was issued for wrecking, demolition or removal of a structure
or building, the certificate of approval shall expire if a building permit has
not been obtained and work has not in good faith begun within thirty (30) days
from the date of issue.
   (B)   If construction was begun in accordance with subsection (A), a
certificate of approval for any type of building or addition shall terminate
twelve (12) months from its date unless the improvement is completed within
that time.
   (C)   If the project was begun in accordance with subsection (A), the
certificate of approval will continue to be valid if the project is completed
within a reasonable time. A renewal, as set out in subsection (D), may be
authorized.
   (D)   A certificate of approval may be renewed as follows:
      (1)   If a written application showing good and reasonable cause why the
project has not been completed is made at least ten (10) days before the
expiration date of a certificate of approval, the City Council or the
Certification Official may, within their discretion, issue a renewal
certificate of approval without the payment of an additional fee. The
certificate shall be renewed for a period of no longer than the period of the
original certificate.
      (2)   If an application for a renewal certificate is made at the
expiration of the certificate or later, a renewal may be approved by the City
Council within its discretion. If approved, a fee equal to the original fee
shall be collected.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation §
70.999
§ 70.010 WORK ON PROJECT AFTER EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATE PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to construct, in whole or in
part, any improvements after a certificate of approval issued pursuant to this
chapter has expired.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.011 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CERTIFICATE APPLICANT
   An applicant to whom a certificate of approval is issued shall be subject to
the following:
   (A)   An applicant shall be responsible for providing adequate drainage,
both during the period of construction and after construction is completed. He
assumes responsibility for assuring the city that water will not be diverted
from its natural flow to the detriment of the land(s) surrounding the building
or structure for which a certificate of approval has been issued.
   (B)   An applicant shall be responsible for seeing that no debris, waste or
rubbish from the project for which a certificate of approval is issued is
discarded or abandoned within the city, either during or after the completion
of the project.
   (C)   An applicant shall maintain the streets in the vicinity of a project
location in a clean condition. An applicant shall not allow streets to become
cluttered or covered with dirt or debris as a result of the activities
authorized by a certificate of approval.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.012 STOP WORK ORDER AUTHORIZED; NOTICE REQUIRED
   (A)    Work on any project for which a certificate of approval has been
issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall immediately
cease in the event of any of the following instances:
      (1)   An applicant violates any provision of this chapter on any project
for which a certificate has been issued.
      (2)   An applicant violates any provision of this chapter on any other
project.
      (3)   An applicant is performing the work authorized by a certificate of
approval in a dangerous or unsafe manner.
   (B)   A written notice that work is to cease shall be issued, and shall be
given to the owner of the property or his agent who is in a position of
authority. The notice shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85; Amd. Ord. 1-2016, passed 10-6-16)
                          
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, §
70.999
§ 70.013 VARIANCE AUTHORIZED
   The City Council may allow variances from any provision set out in this
chapter if an affected person(s) shows that strict application would not be in
the city's best interests or that strict application of the provisions of this
chapter would cause a great hardship or impractical result.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
§ 70.014 BUILDING PERMIT MAY BE REQUIRED IN ADDITION TO CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
   A certificate of approval issued in accordance with this chapter is required
for the construction, modification or renovation of any building or structure
located within the city; however, a certificate of approval is not issued in
lieu of or as a substitute for a building permit issued by the county or the
state. Where a building permit is required under the statutes or regulations of
the state or the county, the applicant must obtain any other permit required in
addition to a certificate of approval.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
§ 70.015 ENFORCEMENT
   It shall be the duty of city law enforcement officer(s), the duly authorized
Certification Official or the City Clerk to investigate any and all violations
of this chapter and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85)
ARTICLE II. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
§ 70.100 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS
   Design and building restrictions. When any approval is required by this
chapter (on lots zoned single family residential), the following design and
building restrictions shall apply to exterior structures, including building
additions, garages, accessory structures, fences, walls and driveways:
   (A)   The exterior building material of all residences, or additions
thereto, shall be brick, aluminum siding, vinyl siding, composition siding,
stone (no exposed concrete block), stucco, wood, glass or a combination
thereof. Design, construction and materials must be compatible with the
existing structures on the lot and match the quality, design and composition,
location on the lot and elevation of structures on adjacent lots; as well as be
in full compliance with those standards set out in
Chapter 80.
   (B)   Each residential lot shall be permitted one (1) garage which may be
attached to the primary residence or set apart from the primary residence, as
long as same is in compliance with the Land Development Code. A standard garage
shall have exterior dimensions no larger than twenty-six (26) feet in depth and
36 feet in width and shall not exceed one story in height and must have
standard overhead garage doors and may be built to accommodate up to three (3)
vehicles; unless a variance is granted by the City Council. The exterior
building material of garages, shall be brick, aluminum siding, vinyl siding,
composition siding, stone (no exposed concrete block), stucco, wood, glass or a
combination thereof. Design, construction and materials must be compatible with
the existing structure on the lot and match the quality, design and
composition, location on the lot and elevation of garages on adjacent lots.
   (C)   Accessory buildings can only be constructed in a rear yard (behind the
rear wall of the primary residence), no closer than five (5) feet to the rear
lot line, nor closer than two (2) feet to a side lot line. Accessory buildings
cannot be larger than one-hundred-sixty (160) square feet, exceed nine (9) feet
in height (measured from the floor to the roof peak), and there is a limit of
one accessory building per lot; unless a variance is granted by the City
Council. Design, construction and materials must be compatible with the
quality, design and composition, location on the lot and elevation of accessory
structures on adjacent lots.
   (D)   Fences shall not extend past the rear wall of the residence of any
lot, towards the front yard. Fences in the rear, side and street side yard may
only be located in compliance with the land Development Code. Fences may be
constructed of materials normally manufactured for use in residential areas,
materials such as chicken wire, above ground electric fences, cement block, and
barbed wire typically used in non-residential settings, are prohibited. The
finished side of a board fence must face outward. Fences may not exceed six (6)
feet in height; provided however, that a property owner may apply to the City
Council for a variance to construct a fence to the maximum height allowed in
the Land Development Code. Fences shall not be constructed in such a way as to
obstruct drainage. Design, construction and materials must be compatible with
the quality, design and composition, location on the lot and elevation offences
on adjacent lots.
   (E)   Driveways must serve as a legitimate access into and out of a
residential structure (or garage). Circular driveways are only allowed in areas
of the cities where they currently exist. No "pull offs" are allowed in any
right of way. Driveways must be a paved, hard surface, either asphalt or
concrete. No gravel driveways, or gravel driveway extensions are allowed.
Extensions to driveways or patios must be designed to mitigate any excessive
runoff from the additional impervious surface. No driveway project can cover
any portion of the city sidewalk and any driveway project that replaces city
sidewalk must comply with the city's standards for sidewalk construction.
Design, construction and materials must be compatible with the quality, design
and composition, location on the lot and elevation of driveways on adjacent
lots.
   (F)   Walls shall not be constructed as to obstruct drainage and cannot be
placed within the city, or Metro Louisville right of way, or obstruct the view
from the city or Metro Louisville right of way. Design, construction and
materials must be compatible with the quality, design and composition, location
on the lot and elevation of walls on adjacent lots.
   (G)   Carports; above ground swimming pools; and fenced dog runs are not
allowed.
   (H)   No city approval is required for projects involving only interior
renovations to structures.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 10-6-16)
§ 70.101 SCOPE
   For those sections of the city which have been or are being developed
primarily as a residential area, no building or structure of any type,
including fences and decks, shall be erected or placed on any lot until the
building plans and specifications showing the location on the lot, style and
building materials to be used, have been submitted to and approved, in writing,
by the city. This section addresses exterior construction and additions to the
primary structure on a lot.
   The following structures will not be permitted to be erected in the city
following the enactment of this article:
   (A)   Carports
   (B)   Above ground swimming pools
   (C)   Fenced dog runs
   (D)   Sheet metal structures.
(Ord. No. 3-1999, 8-9-99; Amd. Ord. No. 1-2001, 3-12-01)
§ 70.102 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS
   All residential lots shall be used in accordance with easements of record,
zoning regulations enacted by the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission and ordinances of Douglass Hills.
(Ord. No. 3-1999, 8-9-99)
§ 70.103 [RESERVED]
§ 70.104 EXISTING STRUCTURES
   Structures which the homeowner can prove were in place prior to November 1,
2016 are exempt from this section.
(Ord. No. 3-1999, 8-9-99; Amd. Ord. No. 6-1999, 10-11-99; Amd. Ord. No. 1-2001,
3-12-01; Amd. Ord. 1-2016, passed 10-6-16)
§ 70.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of Article I,
shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per violation. Each day during which a violation continues shall be deemed and
construed a separate offense.
   (B)   The failure to construct, erect, maintain, wreck, demolish or remove a
structure in accordance with the terms of an approved and issued certificate of
approval shall constitute a violation of this section subject to subsection
(A). Each day such a violation continues to exist shall be deemed and construed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person or entity who violates (Article II) or any order of the
citation Enforcement Officer issued pursuant to Article II shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) but not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each violation. Each day of continued violation shall constitute
a separate offense. All penalties to be paid to the city.
(Ord. No. 13-1985, 11-11-85; Ord. No. 6-1999, 10-11-99)
TITLE 8: PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 80   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 80: ZONING CODE
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
80.001   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan by reference
   
80.002   Adoption of Development Code by reference
   
80.003   Exceptions to zoning regulations; square foot restrictions
ARTICLE II. ZONING PROCEDURES
   
80.100   Clerk to log entry for zoning matter
   
80.101   Zoning committee appointed; recommendations
   
80.102   Council to decide on zoning matter; hearing authorized
   
80.103   Hearing procedure
   
80.104   Evidence which may be considered
   
80.105   Zoning action based on Planning Commission recommendation; exceptions
   
80.106   Ethical conduct required
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 80.001 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BY REFERENCE
   (A)   The Statement of Goals, Objectives, Principles, Policies, and
Standards embodied in the "Principles" section of the comprehensive plan
entitled "Guided Growth and Redevelopment for Louisville and Jefferson County"
as developed by the Jefferson County Planning Commission, and any amendments to
the statement, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan entitled "Guided Growth and Redevelopment for
Louisville and Jefferson County," and any amendments to the plan, as developed
by the Jefferson County Planning Commission in accordance with the Statement of
Goals, Objectives, Principles, Policies and Standards set out in subsection (A)
is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
   (C)   A copy of the statement and plan are on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Ord. No. 11-1980, 7-14-80; Am. Ord. No. 1-2000, 1-10-00; Am. Ord. No. 1-2018,
6-20-18)
§ 80.002 ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT CODE BY REFERENCE
   (A)   The Development Code, including the Zoning District Regulations, and
the Metropolitan Subdivision Regulations as developed by the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning Commission in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan
is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   The Development Code shall be the zoning regulations of the city,
except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
   (C)   Excepted from adoption are those amendments included in Zoning
District Regulation docket numbers 9-92-97, 9-44-88 and 9-58-88.
   (D)   A copy of the Development Code, including Zoning and Subdivision
Regulations, is on file in the office of City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 12-1980, 8-11-80; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1988, 2-8-88; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1989,
4-10-89; Amd. Ord. No. 5-1990, 8-13-90; 1990 code; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1998, 3-9-
98; Amd. Ord. No. 7-2000, 11-13-00; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2001, 9-10-01; Amd. Ord.
No. 1-2003, 3-10-03; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2024, 12-5-24)
§ 80.003 EXCEPTIONS TO ZONING REGULATIONS; SQUARE FOOTAGE RESTRICTIONS
      On all lots in those portions of the City zoned for single-family
dwellings, the floor area shall be the following minimum square footage which
shall be computed with reference only to the portions of the house designed for
human habitation and the computation shall not include porches, garages or
similar portions of the house:
      Type/Location         Minimum Square Feet
   (A) One-story house
      Douglass Hills Proper           1,750
      Plainview Place Subdivision        1,550
      Douglass Hills East              1,500
      Douglass Hills Estates          1,500
      Other undeveloped sections zoned
       as residential             1,750
   (B) First floor area of a two story house   
           All portions of the City           1,000
   (C) First floor area of a one-and-a-half story house
      Douglass Hills Proper          1,200
      Douglass Hills East             1,100
      Douglass Hills Estates          1,100
      Plainview Place Subdivision       1,100
      Other undeveloped sections zoned
       as residential             1,200
   (D) Total floor area of a tri-level house
      Douglas Hills Proper          1,800
      Douglass Hills East             1,800
      Plainview Place Subdivision       1,800
      Douglass Hills Estates          1,800
      Other undeveloped sections zoned
       as residential             1,800
   (E) All other types of houses
      Douglass Hills Proper          1,900
      Douglass Hills East             1,650
      Plainview Place Subdivision       1,650
      Douglass Hills Estates          1,650
      Other undeveloped sections zoned
       as residential             1,900
   (F)   Lot size
      Undeveloped sections zoned as
       single-family residential          10,000
   (G)   The City Council may allow variances from this section upon a
sufficient showing by the applicant for the building permit that strict
application of the minimum square footage would render it impracticable to the
single-family dwelling on the lot that is the subject of the owned lot prior to
enactment of this requirement.
(Ord. No. 1-1979, - -79; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1987, 5-11-87; Amd. Ord. No. 1-1994, -
- ; Amd. Ord. No. 4-1994, 6-13-94; Amd. Ord. No. 1-2002, 3-11-02)
ARTICLE II. ZONING PROCEDURES
§ 80.100 CLERK TO LOG ENTRY FOR ZONING MATTER
   (A)   The City Clerk shall receive the record of a zoning matter submitted
to the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission, hereinafter called
"Planning Commission." The record shall include the staff report, transcript of
evidence at the commission's public hearing and the minutes of the commission
meeting containing its recommendation concerning any zoning matter, hereinafter
called "recommendation". The City Clerk shall enter the matter in a docket book
kept by the City Clerk for zoning matters only. Entries shall be made as the
matter progresses and shall show the following:
      (1)   Name of the applicant and Planning Commission docket number;
      (2)   Date the Planning Commission's recommendation was received;
      (3)   Date that a copy of the Planning Commission's recommendation and
the full record transmitted by the Planning Commission was sent by the City
Clerk to each member of the City Council, the Mayor and the City Attorney;
      (4)   A brief description of the location of the property; and
      (5)   All subsequent proceedings.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall promptly notify the Mayor of any zoning matter
received and recorded in accordance with subsection (A).
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-85; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2023, 1-4-24)
§ 80.101 ZONING COMMITTEE APPOINTED; RECOMMENDATIONS
   The Mayor shall appoint a standing zoning committee consisting of a
Councilmember who shall serve as chairman and two (2) other councilmembers. Any
zoning matter shall be referred to the Zoning Committee and the committee
shall, before the next meeting of the City Council, review the Planning
Commission's recommendation.
   (B)   After its review and at the next meeting of City Council, the Zoning
Committee shall report to the City Council the results of its review, which may
be recommend to the Council as follows:
      (1)   To approve the Planning Commission's recommendation;
      (2)   To approve the Planning Commission's recommendation with
modifications;
      (3)   To override the Planning Commission's recommendation;
      (4)   To refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further
action; or
      (5)   To make no recommendation for or against the proposal, recommend
binding elements, or provide any other information or guidance the Committee
deems useful for the City Council.
   (C)   Any decision of the City Council approving or denying a zoning matter
must be made through an ordinance or municipal order drafted by the City
Attorney containing findings which support the City Council's decision
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-85; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2023, 1-4-24)
§ 80.102 COUNCIL TO DECIDE ON ZONING MATTERS; HEARING AUTHORIZED 
   (A)   As set out in §
80.101, an ordinance or municipal order approving or denying a zoning matter
shall be drafted and docketed for consideration at the earliest City Council
meeting after the date of the decision of the Planning Commission. Final action
by the City Council on any re-zoning request must occur no later than ninety
(90) days from the date of the Planning Commission recommendation.
   (B)   After receiving the Committee's recommendation, the City Council may
elect to act on the zoning matter at a subsequent meeting of the City Council
without holding a public hearing or with only an argument-type hearing. In this
case no additional evidence will be considered or received by the Council. The
City Council may accept the Planning Commission's recommendation or it may
determine, from the Planning Commission record adjudicative facts which differ
from the Planning Commission's findings. In the event the Council finds facts
which differ, the Council may elect not to follow the Planning Commission's
recommendation.
   (C)   In extraordinary cases, the City Council may elect to hold its own
trial-type hearing, and make findings of adjudicative facts based upon the
evidence received at the hearing. The City Council shall, on evidence received
at its hearing, base its decision to accept, override or modify the Planning
Commission's recommendation, or to return the matter to the Planning Commission
for further action.
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-95; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2023, 1-4-24)
§ 80.103 HEARING PROCEDURE
   (A)   The City Council shall give notice of the date, time and place of a
trial-type hearing held pursuant to §
80.102 to each attorney and person who entered their appearance when the matter
was before the Planning Commission. The notice shall be mailed not less than
seven (7) days before the public hearing.
   (B)   An accurate record of the public hearing shall be mechanically or
stenographically made, at the applicant's cost.
   (C)   Witnesses who testify at the public hearing shall be subject to proper
cross-examination by other interested parties.
   (D)   The Mayor, with the assistance of the City Attorney, shall preside
over the hearing, and shall determine a procedure, designed to permit a full
and orderly presentation of the evidence in accordance with due process
requirements, to be followed.
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-95)
§ 80.104 EVIDENCE WHICH MAY BE CONSIDERED
   Except the evidence presented at a public hearing pursuant to §
80.102, the City Council shall not consider additional evidence including, but
not limited to exhibits, petitions, letters, or personal contacts in reaching a
decision on any zoning matter. The City Council may, however, permit
supplemental documentary evidence such as plats and plans to be filed, provided
the opposing party may file evidence in rebuttal of the supplemental evidence.
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-85)
§ 80.105 ZONING ACTION BASED ON PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION; EXCEPTIONS
   (A)   Action by the City Council in zoning matters shall be based upon
either:
      (1)   The record of the Planning Commission, including the staff report
and transcript of evidence before the Commission at its public hearing; or
      (2)   Evidence received at a public hearing held by the City Council.
   (B)   If the City Council returns the matter to the Planning Commission for
further recommendation or other action, it shall:
      (1)   Set forth in writing the specific reasons for returning the matter
to the Commission; and
      (2)   Advise the Commission of the type of further action the Council
desires the Commission to take.
   (C)   It shall take a majority vote of the entire City Council to override
the recommendation of the Planning Commission. The Mayor cannot vote in case of
a tie when considering a rezoning.
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-85; Amd. Ord. No. 6-2023, 1-4-24)
§ 80.106 ETHICAL CONDUCT REQUIRED
   Members of the City Council shall not permit personal contacts by persons
interested in zoning matters for the purpose of discussing or influencing the
outcome of any zoning matter before the City Council for consideration.
(Ord. No. 2-1985, 4-18-85)
                          
Cross reference:
   Ethical conduct,
Chapter 26
TABLES OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE 1  SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
TABLE 2  ANNEXATIONS
TABLE 3  BONDS
TABLE 4  FRANCHISES
TABLE 5  MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE 6  PERSONNEL
TABLE 7  STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS [RESERVED]
TABLE 8  TAXATION
TABLE 9  ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE 10 AGREEMENTS
 
TABLE 1: SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have been superseded or
repealed by ordinance or superseded by changes in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes:
Ordinance No. Date Subject Reason/ Ord. No.
Ordinance No. Date     Subject                                 Reason/ Ord. No.
1-1973        6-27-73  Time and place of trustee meetings      4-1973
4-1973        11-26-73 Time and place of trustee meetings      11-1974
6-1974        5-30-74  Weeds, high grasses, undesirable        8-1975
                       vegetation and debris
7-1974        5-30-74  Motor vehicle regulations               8-1978
8-1974        - -      Firearms                                2-2013
9-1974        - -      Destruction of private property         1-2019
10-1974       8-26-74  Weight limits of vehicles on city       1-2020
                       roadways
11-1974       8-26-74  Time and place of trustee meetings      1-1976
3-1975        5-16-75  Carrying concealed weapons              3-1977
7-1975        7-28-75  Business licenses                       1-2011
8-1975        - -      Weeds, grass, undesirable vegetation    9-2017
                       and debris
2-1976        1-5-76   Parking regulations                     1-2020
9-1976        --       Overnight parking regulations           1-2020
12-1976       4-12-76  Restricting use of property             11-1980
18-1976       10-12-76 Parking at intersections                1-2020
2-1977        - -      Signs, posters regulated                1-2019
4-1977        10-10-77 Building permits, regulations           2-1978
5-1977        10-10-77 Deed restrictions                       2-1978
2-1978        3-13-78  Residential building restrictions       6-1978
3-1978        3-13-78  Building permit procedure               7-1978
4-1978        - -      Building and zoning                     6-1978
5-1978        - -      Building and zoning                     7-1978
6-1978        5-22-78  Building restrictions                   1-1979
7-1978        5-22-78  Building permits, inspections, plan     2-1979
                       review
1-1979        5-14-79  Residential building restrictions       11-1980
2-1979        5-14-79  Building permits, inspections, plan     13-1985
                       review
3-1979        5-14-79  Control of traffic near recreational    1-2020
                       facility
5-1980        4-3-80   Parking of trucks and similar vehicles  1-2020
6-1981        4-3-81   Administration of municipal government  5-1996
7-1981        6-8-81   Motor vehicle regulations               1-2020
1-1983        4-14-83  Motor vehicle regulations               1-2020
9-1990        10-15-90 Insurance licensing regulations         2-2019
10-1990       10-30-90 Insurance licensing regulations         2-2019
2-1991        10-14-96 Raising salary of mayor                 5-1996
                       Adoption interlocal agreement for
3-1994        10-14-96 Jefferson County League of Cities Cable 5-1996
                       Commission
8-1998        11-9-98  Overnight parking of motor vehicles,    1-2020
                       motorcycles and similar vehicles
2-2001        7-9-01   Motor vehicle regulations               1-2020
2-2004        2-9-04   Parking trucks and certain vehicles     1-2020
3-2014        6-5-14   Fences                                  1-2016
5-2017        8-3-17   Parking restrictions                    1-2020
                                                             
 
TABLE 2: ANNEXATIONS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject annexing
property to or removing property from the city limits:
Ord. No. Date            Subject
Ord. No. Date                Subject
2-1973   7-27-73  Proposing to annex certain property beginning at the
                  northwestern corner of the existing city limits.
3-1973   8-27-73  Annexing certain property beginning at the northwestern
                  corner of the existing city limits.
3-1976   1-12-76  Proposing to annex certain property lying on the southern
                  side of the existing city limits.
4-1976   1-12-76  Proposing to annex certain property lying on the eastern side
                  of the existing city limits.
10-1976  3-3-76   Annexing certain property lying on the southern side of the
                  existing city limits.
11-1976  3-3-76   Annexing certain property lying on the eastern side of the
                  existing city limits.
1-1980   1-28-80  Proposing to annex certain property lying on the eastern side
                  of the existing city limits.
3-1980   2-11-80  Proposing to annex certain property near Cherry Point Drive.
                  Authorizing an agreement, providing for annexation of the
4-1980   4-3-80   property proposed for annexation in Ord. 1-1980, between the
                  city and the owner of the property.
6-1980   4-28-80  Implementing Ord. 4-1980 pertaining to a proposed annexation
                  agreement.
                  Annexing certain property lying on the eastern side of the
7-1980   4-28-80  existing city limits, being the same property proposed for
                  annexation in Ord. 1-1980.
8-1980   5-12-80  Annexing certain property near Cherry Point Drive.
13-1980  10-13-80 Proposing to annex certain property lying within the
                  boundaries of the city of Blue Ridge Manor.
                  Proposing to annex two tracts of property, one tract lying
17-1980  12-30-80 near Old Harrods Creek Road and the second tract lying near
                  Ellingsworth Road.
Ord. No. Date            Subject
Ord. No. Date                Subject
                 
1-1981   1-26-81  Proposing to annex certain property near Running Creek
                  Estates.
5-1981   4-1-81   Annexing certain property near Running Creek Estates.
                  Annexing two tracts of property, one tract lying near Old
13-1981  12-21-81 Harrods Creek Road and the second tract lying near
                  Ellingsworth Road, by consent of the owners of a portion of
                  the property to be annexed.*
5-1982   8-24-82  Annexing certain property by consent of the property owners
                  (LaFontenay area).*
4-1992   12-14-92 Proposing to annex certain property in Running Creek Estates,
                  Lot number 8.
6-1992   1-11-93  Annexing certain property in Running Creek Estates, Lot
                  number 8.
1-1993   2-8-93   Proposing to annex certain property near Dorsey Lane,
                  containing 1.351 acres.
                  Proposing to annex certain property conveyed to Hills
4-1998   5-11-98  Building and Construction Services No. 1, Inc. containing
                  1.351 acres.
 
                            
*Ord. 13-1981 was declared null and void and of no effect in civil case number
81-CI-11155, except that the property annexed by consent of the owner
(LaFontenay area) was declared to be properly annexed and is the subject of
Ord. 5-1982.
TABLE 3: BONDS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject bonds
authorized or issued by the city:
 
Ord. No. Date    Subject
17-1976  9-13-76 Recreational Facilities Project (swimming pool, bath house,
                 tennis courts and related facilities)
4-2002   3-11-02 Middletown Christian Village, Inc. Project (assisted living)
 
TABLE 4: FRANCHISES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) relate to franchises
authorized and granted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
7-1979   1-28-80  Community antenna television
2-1981   2-14-81  Community antenna television
4-1981   2-23-81  Community antenna television
5-1995   11-13-95 Community antenna television
3-2011   7-7-11   Financial institutions
1-2014   3-6-14   Community antenna television
4-2021   12-2-21  Electricity and natural gas
                 
 
TABLE 5: MISCELLANEOUS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) are of a special or temporary
nature or have been determined to be obsolete and of no force and effect:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
5-1975   6-23-75  Authorizing census to determine city's eligibility for fourth
                  class city status.
                  Authorizing creation of a corporation to further the
15-76    1-3-76   recreational interests of the city, and authorizing the
                  acquisition of a recreational facility.
1-1977   1-18-77  Adopting budget for 1977.
1-1978   1-9-78   Adopting budget for 1978.
10-1978  12-11-78 Adopting budget for 1979.
6-1979   12-28-79 Adopting budget for 1980.
9-1980   6-9-80   Adopting a codification of ordinances and excluding all
                  special ordinances from the codification.
15-1980  11-17-80 Adopting budget for 1981.
12-1981  12-21-81 Adopting budget for 1982.
3-1982   7-12-82  Amending budget for 1982
7-1982   12-13-82 Adopting budget for the six-month period of January 1 through
                  June 30, 1983.
2-1983   6-16-83  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1983 through June 30,
                  1984.
5-1983   12-12-83 Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 1983 through June 30,
                  1984.
1-1984   6-26-84  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1984 through June 30,
                  1985.
1-1985   2-11-85  Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 1984 through June 30,
                  1985.
4-1985   5-13-85  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1985 through June 30,
                  1986.
3-1986   6-9-86   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1986 through June 30,
                  1987.
6-1986   7-12-86  Approving a pooled lease program (Kentucky Municipal League
                  Pooled Lease Program) and interlocal cooperation agreement.
8-1986   12-8-86  Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 1986 through June 30,
                  1987.
2-1987   - -      Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1987 through June 30,
                  1988.
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
                 
                  Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance,
5-1987   9-14-87  and authorizing the execution of the interlocal cooperation
                  agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
                  Association.
2-1988   6-13-88  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1988 through June 30,
                  1989.
2-1989   6-12-89  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1989 through June 30,
                  1990.
3-1990   6-11-90  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1990 through June 30,
                  1991.
7-1990   7-9-90   Adopting a codification of ordinances and excluding all
                  special ordinances from the codification.
11-1990  12-19-90 Authorizing acquisition of real property for use as a public
                  park by lease with the Archdiocese of Louisville.
4-1991   6-10-91  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1991 through June 30,
                  1992.
1-1992   6-9-92   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1992 through June 30,
                  1993.
3-1993   5-10-93  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1993 through June 30,
                  1994.
                  Authorizing an amendment to an existing lease for property to
6-1993   6-12-93  be used as a city park as originally authorized in Ord. 11-
                  1990.
2-1994   5-9-94   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1994 through June 30,
                  1995.
3-1994   6-13-94  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Jefferson County
                  League of Cities to provide cable television services.
2-1995   6-12-95  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1995 through June 30,
                  1995.
2-1996   6-10-96  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1996 through June 30,
                  1997.
4-1997   6-6-97   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1997, through June
                  30, 1998.
3-1998   - -      Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1998 through June 30,
                  1999.
1-1999   4-12-99  Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 1998, through June
                  30, 1999.
2-1999   6-14-99  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 1999 through June 30,
                  2000.
3-2000   6-12-00  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2000 through June 30,
                  2001.
3-2001   6-11-01  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2001 through June 30,
                  2002
5-2002   6-10-02  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2002 through June 30,
                  2003
2-2003   6-9-03   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2003 through June 30,
                  2004
4-2004   5-10-04  Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2003 through June 30,
                  2004
5-2004   6-14-04  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2004 through June 30,
                  2005
3-2005   6-13-05  Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2004 through June 30,
                  2005
4-2005   6-13-05  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2005 through June 30,
                  2006
2-2006   6-12-06  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2006 through June 30,
                  2007
2-2007   7-16-07  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2007 through June 30,
                  2008
4-2007   7-9-07   Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2006 through June 30,
                  2007
1-2009   3-9-09   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2008 through June 30,
                  2009
4-2009   7-13-09  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2009 through June 30,
                  2010
6-2010   6-3-10   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2010 through June 30,
                  2011
8-2010   8-5-10   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2009 through June 30,
                  2010
2-2011   6-2-11   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2011 through June 30,
                  2012
4-2011   8-4-11   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2010 through June 30,
                  2011
1-2012   6-7-12   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2012 through June 30,
                  2013
2-2012   8-2-12   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2011 through June 30,
                  2012
1-2013   6-6-13   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2013 through June 30,
                  2014
4-2013   9-5-13   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2012 through June 30,
                  2013
2-2014   5-1-14   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2014 through June 30,
                  2015
3-2017   6-22-17  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2017 through June 30,
                  2018
2-2018   6-20-18  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2018 through June 30,
                  2019
3-2018   8-2-18   Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2017 through June 30,
                  2018
3-2019   6-6-19   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2019 through June 30,
                  2020
5-2019   7-3-19   Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2018 through June 30,
                  2019
5-2020   7-2-20   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2020 through June 30,
                  2021
6-2020   8-6-20   Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2019 through June 30,
                  2020
1-2021   6-3-21   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2021 through June 30,
                  2022
1-2022   6-15-22  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2022 through June 30,
                  2023
5-2023   6-22-23  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2023 through June 30,
                  2024
4-2024   6-19-24  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2024 through June 30,
                  2025
                 
 
TABLE 6: PERSONNEL
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject
personnel matters as enacted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. Date Subject
No.
3-   7-   Fixing the salary for the office of Mayor at $4,650.00 per year effective
1987 13-  July 1, 1987
     87
2-   6-   Budget ordinance fixes salary for the office of mayor at $5,000 per year
1989 12-  effective July 1, 1989.
     89
2-   4-8- Fixing the salary for the office of Mayor at $6,000.00 per year effective
1991 91   January 1, 1992.
3-   4-8- Fixing the salary for the office of City Council members at $600.00 per year
1991 91   effective January 1, 1992.
2-   8-
1992 10-  Establishing the position of citation officer.
     92
     4-   (1)   Amending Mayor's salary at $6,600.00 per year effective January 1,
2-   13-  1999.
1998 98   (2)   Amending Council's salary at $1,200.00 per year effective January 1,
          1999.
2-   5-8- Authorizing and directing the city to participate in the County Employees
2000 00   Retirement System.
5-   3-4- Establishing the position of citation officer.
2010 10
     1-   (1)   Fixing the annual compensation of the Mayor at $30,000 to begin with
5-   19-  new term.
2021 22   (2)   Adopting the “rubber dollar” theory referenced in KRS 83A.075 to
          annually recompute the salaries of elected officials.
         
 
 
TABLE 7: STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
[RESERVED]
TABLE 8: TAXATION
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject ad
valorem taxation rates levied by the city:
Ord. No. Date Rate per $100
Ord. No. Date     Rate per $100
5-1973   11-26-73 30 cents
12-1974  11-25-74 30 cents
9-1975   11-3-75  30 cents
19-1976  11-8-76  30 cents
6-1977   11-14-77 30 cents
11-1978  11-27-78 30 cents
5-1979   12-10-79 30 cents
14-1980  11-17-80 30 cents
*16-1980 11-17-80 $41. per household
                $22.50 per condo
11-1981  11-9-81  24 cents
6-1982   10-11-82 23.7 cents
3-1983   9-12-83  23.5 cents
2-1984   8-13-84  23.4 cents
9-1985   8-12-85  21.8 cents
7-1986   9-8-76   21.8 cents
4-1987   9-14-87  21.6 cents
3-1988   9-12-88  18.8 cents
3-1989   9-11-89  18.8 cents
8-1990   9-10-90  18.8 cents
5-1991   9-9-91   18.8 cents
3-1992   9-14-92  18 cents
4-1993   8-9-93   18 cents
5-1994   9-12-94  16.3 cents
3-1995   6-12-95  16.2 cents
4-1996   8-12-96  15.7 cents
5-1997   9-8-97   15.7 cents
5-1998   9-14-98  15.7 cents
4-1999   9-13-99  15.6 cents
4-2000   8-14-00  15.6 cents
5-2001   9-10-01  14.6 cents
6-2002   8-12-02  14.6 cents
3-2003   8-11-03  14.6 cents
6-2004   8-9-04   14.9 cents
5-2005   9-12-05  14.3 cents
3-2006   8-14-06  14.5 cents
6-2007   8-13-07  14.5 cents
7-2008   8-19-08  14.5 cents
5-2009   8-10-09  13.6 cents
9-2010   8-5-10   .139 cents
5-2011   8-4-11   .139 cents
3-2012   8-2-12   .139 cents
3-2013   8-1-13   .139 cents
7-2017   9-7-17   .133 cents
4-2018   8-2-18   .131 cents
4-2019   7-3-19   .134 cents
4-2020   6-4-20   .134 cents
2-2021   8-5-21   .134 cents
2-2022   6-15-22  .134 cents
4-2023   7-6-23   .176 cents
3-2024   6-19-24  .176 cents
                 
 
                        
*Levied a supplemental tax for garbage collection services for fiscal year
1981.
TABLE 9: ZONING MAP CHANGES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) enacted by the city make
specific changes in the zoning of specific property pursuant to the zoning
code:
Ord. No. Date
Ord. No. Date
2-1982   11-15-82
5-1986   7-7-86
4-1995   11-13-95
3-1996   7-8-96
1-2008   2-27-08
4-2017   7-6-17
3-2022   12-12-22
         
 
TABLE 10: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  The city adopts Jefferson Fiscal Court Ordinance 21, Series
8-2000   12-11-00 1998 relating to the enforcement of binding elements and
                  creating new sections of Chapter 153 of the Jefferson County
                  Code of Ordinances for that purpose.
 
SUMMARY OF ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description Section
Ord. Date   Description                                              Section
No.
1-   6-27-  Time and place of meetings of trustees                   Table 1
1973 73
2-   7-27-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1973 73
3-   8-27-  Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1973 73
4-   11-26- Time and place of meetings of trustees                   Table 1
1973 73
5-   11-26- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1973 73
1-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1974
2-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1974
3-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1974
4-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1974
5-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1974
6-   5-30-  Weeds, high grasses, undesirable vegetation and debris   Table 1
1974 74
7-   5-30-  Motor vehicle regulations                                Table 1
1974 74
9-   - -    Destruction of private property                          Table 1
1974
10-  8-26-  Weight limits of vehicles on city roadways               40.002,
1974 74                                                              Table 1
11-  8-26-  Time and place of meetings of trustees                   Table 1
1974 74
12-  11-25- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1974 74
1-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1975
2-   - -    Riding horses, other animals in city                     51.002,
1975                                                                 51.999
3-   5-16-  Carrying concealed weapons                               Table 1
1975 75
4-   5-27-  Littering on private property                            50.001,
1975 75                                                              51.999
5-   6-23-  Authorizing census                                       Table 5
1975 75
6-   5-5-75 Riding horses, other animals in city                     51.002,
1975                                                                 51.999
8-   - -    Weeds, grass, undesirable vegetation and debris          Table 1
1975
9-   11-3-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1975 75
1-   1-5-76 Time and place of meetings of trustees                   20.250
1976
2-   1-5-76 Parking regulations                                      40.100,
1976                                                                 Table 1
3-   1-12-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1976 76
4-   1-12-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1976 76
9-   - -    Overnight parking regulations                            Table 1
1976
10-  3-3-76 Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1976
11-  3-3-76 Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1976
12-  4-12-  Restricting use of property                              Table 1
1976 76
13-  4-12-  Dogs to be leashed or controlled                         51.001,
1976 76                                                              51.999
14-  6-14-  Garbage collection fees                                  30.001
1976 76
15-                                                                  22.001-
1976 1-3-76 Recreational interests                                   22.003,
                                                                     Table 5
17-  9-13-  Recreational Facilities Project                          Table 3
1976 76
18-  10-12- Parking at intersections                                 40.100,
1976 76                                                              Table 1
19-  11-8-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1976 76
1-   1-18-  Adopting budget for 1977.                                Table 5
1977 77
2-   - -    Posters and signs                                        Table 1
1977
4-   10-10- Building permits, regulations                            Table 1
1977 77
5-   10-10- Deed restrictions                                        Table 1
1977 77
6-   11-14- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1977 77
1-   1-9-78 Adopting budget for 1978.                                Table 5
1978
2-   3-13-  Residential building restrictions                        Table 1
1978 78
3-   3-13-  Building permit procedure                                Table 1
1978 78
4-   - -    Building and zoning                                      Table 1
1978
5-   - -    Building and zoning                                      Table 1
1978
6-   5-22-  Building restrictions                                    Table 1
1978 78
7-   5-22-  Building permits, inspections, plan review               Table 1
1978 78
8-   5-22-  Repealing motor vehicle regulations, Ord. No. 7-1974     Not
1978 78                                                              included
                                                                     20.001,
                                                                     20.005,
                                                                     20.100-
9-   8-14-  Establishing city council, defining powers of            20.106,
1978 45                                                              20.200,
                                                                     20.250,
                                                                     20.252-
                                                                     20.256
10-  12-11- Adopting budget for 1979.                                Table 5
1978 78
11-  11-27- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1978 78
12-  1-8-79 Appointment of treasurer as collector                    21.101
1978
1-   5-14-  Residential building restrictions                        Table 1
1979 79
2-   5-14-  Building permits, inspections, plan review               Table 1
1979 79
3-   5-14-                                                           40.200,
1979 79     Control of traffic near recreational facility            40.201,  
                                                                     Table 1
5-   12-10- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1979 79
6-   12-28- Adopting budget for 1980.                                Table 5
1979 79
7-   1-28-  Community antenna television                             Table 4
1979 80
1-   1-28-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1980 80
3-   2-11-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1980 80
4-   4-3-80 Authorizing an agreement for annexation                  Table 2
1980
5-   4-3-80 Truck and similar vehicle parking regulations            Table 1
1980
6-   4-28-  Implementing Ord. 4-1980                                 Table 2
1980 80
7-   4-28-  Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1980 80
8-   5-12-  Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1980 80
9-   6-9-80 Adopting a codification of ordinances                    Table 5
1980
10-  - -    Did not pass                                              
1980
11-  7-14-  Land use and zoning                                      80.001
1980 80
12-  8-11-  Zoning and subdivision regulations                       80.002
1980 80
13-  10-13- Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1980 80
14-  11-17- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1980 80
15-  11-17- Adopting budget for 1981.                                Table 5
1980 80
16-  11-17- Special tax for garbage collection, FY 1981              Table 8
1980 80
17-  12-30- Proposing to annex two tracts of property                Table 2
1980 80
1-   1-26-  Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1981 81
2-   2-14-  Community antenna television                             Table 4
1981 81
3-   2- -81 Non-partisan city election authorized                    20.002
1981
4-   2-23-  Community antenna television                             Table 4
1981 81
5-   4-1-81 Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1981
                                                                     20.001,
                                                                     20.002 
                                                                     20.005,
                                                                     20.100,
                                                                     20.106,
                                                                     20.200 
6-                                                                   20.250,
1981 4-3-81 Administration of city government                        20.252-
                                                                     20.256,
                                                                     21.001-
                                                                     21.004,
                                                                     21.101 
                                                                     22.001-
                                                                     22.003,
                                                                     Table 1
                                                                     40.100,
7-   6-8-81 Regulation of motor vehicles                             40.200,
1981                                                                 40.201,
                                                                     Table 1
8-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1981
9-   10-12- Administration of city government                        21.101
1981 81
10-  - -    Vetoed, did not pass                                      
1981
11-  11-9-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1981 81
12-  12-21- Adopting budget for 1982.                                Table 5
1981 81
13-  12-21- Annexing two tracts of property by consent of owners     Table 2
1981 81
                                                                     62.001 ,
1-   4-5-82 Regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages                62.002,
1982                                                                 62.004,
                                                                     62.999
2-   11-15- Zoning map change                                        Table 9
1982 82
3-   7-12-  Amending annual budget                                   Table 5
1982 82
                                                                     62.001 ,
4-   8-23-                                                           62.002,
1982 82     Regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages                62.004,
                                                                     62.005,
                                                                     62.999
5-   8-24-  Annexing certain property by consent of                  Table 2
1982 82
6-   10-11- Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1982 82
7-   12-13- Adopting budget for a six-month period                   Table 5
1982 82
8-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1982
1-   4-14-  Motor vehicle regulations                                Table 1
1983 83
2-   6-16-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1983 83
3-   9-12-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1983 83
4-   8-23-                                                           41.001-
1983 82     Street numbering                                         41.006,
                                                                     41.999
5-   12-12- Amending budget                                          Table 5
1983 83
1-   6-26-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1984 84
2-   8-13-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1984 84
1-   2-11-  Amending budget                                          Table 5
1985 85
2-   4-18-  Zoning procedures                                        80.100-
1985 85                                                              80.106
3-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1985
4-   5-13-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1985 85
5-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
6-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
7-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
8-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
9-   8-12-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1985 85
10-  - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
11-  - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
12-  - -    Did not pass                                              
1985
                                                                     70.001-
13-  11-11-                                                          70.006,
1985 85     Zoning and subdivision regulations                       70.008-
                                                                     70.015,
                                                                     70.999
1-   2-10-  Time and place of meetings of council                    20.250
1986 86
2-   5-12-  Indemnification of elected officials                     20.003
1986 86
3-   6-9-86 Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1986
4-   7-7-86 Zoning and subdivision regulations                       70.006
1986
5-   7-7-86 Zoning map change                                        Table 9
1986
6-   7-12-  Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement            Table 5
1986 86
7-   9-8-76 Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1986
8-   12-8-  Amending budget                                          Table 5
1986 86
1-   5-11-  Zoning and subdivision regulations                       80.003
1987 87
2-   - -    Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1987
3-   7-13-  Fixing the salary for the office of Mayor                Table 6
1987 87
4-   9-14-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1987 87
5-   9-14-  Approving a program for self-insurance                   Table 5
1987 87
6-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1987
7-   11-4-  Sewer regulations                                        31.001-
1987 87                                                              31.002
1-   2-8-88 Zoning and subdivision regulations                       80.002
1988
2-   6-13-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1988 88
3-   9-12-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1988 88
1-   4-10-  Zoning and subdivision regulations                       80.002
1989 89
2-   6-12-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1989 89
3-   9-11-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1989 89
1-   2-12-  Relating to city administration                          21.002,
1990 90                                                              21.101
2-   4-9-90 Creating recycling program                               30.001,
1990                                                                 30.999
3-   6-11-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1990 90
4-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1990
5-   8-13-  Zoning and subdivision regulations                       80.002
1990 90
6-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1990
7-   7-9-90 Adopting a codification of ordinances                    Table 5
1990
8-   9-10-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1990 90
9-   10-15- Insurance licensing regulations                          Table 1
1990 90
10-  10-30- Insurance licensing regulations                          Table 1
1990 90
11-  12-19- Authorizing acquisition of real property                 Table 5
1990 90
1-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1991
2-   4-8-91 Fixing the salary for the office of mayor                Table 6
1991
3-   4-8-91 Fixing the salary for city council                       Table 6
1991
4-   6-10-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1991 91
5-   9-9-91 Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1991
1-   6-9-92 Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1992
2-   8-10-  Establishing the position of citation officer            Table 6
1992 92
3-   9-14-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1992 92
4-   12-14- Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1992 92
5-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1992
6-   1-11-  Annexing certain property                                Table 2
1992 93
1-   2-8-93 Proposing to annex certain property                      Table 2
1993
2-   - -    Did not pass                                              
1993
3-   5-10-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1993 93
4-   8-9-93 Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1993
5-   8-9-93 Abolishing primary elections                             20.002
1993
6-   6-12-  Authorizing an amendment to an existing lease            Table 5
1993 93
1-   - -    Zoning regulations                                       80.003
1994
2-   5-9-94 Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1994
3-   6-13-  Authorizing an-cable television services                 Table 5
1994 94
4-   6-13-  Setting building requirements                            80.003
1994 94
5-   9-12-  Ad valorem taxation                                      Table 8
1994 94
6-   - -    No ordinance                                              
1994
                                                                     26.001-
                                                                     26.003,
                                                                     26.100-
                                                                     26.104,
7-   12-12- Establishing a code of ethical conduct                   26.200-
1994 94                                                              26.205,
                                                                     26.300,
                                                                     26.400-
                                                                     26.409,
                                                                     26.999
1-   - -.                                                           Not adopted
1995
2-   6-12-  Adopting budget                                          Table 5
1995 95
3-   6-12-  Adopting ad valorem tax assessment                       Table 8
1995 95
4-   11-13- Zoning change                                            Table 9
1995 95
5-   11-13- Awarding community antenna franchise                     Table 4
1995 95
1-   4-8-96 Amends binding elements of Ord. 4-1995                   Not
1996                                                                 included
2-   6-10-  Adopting Budget                                          Table 5
1996 96
3-   7-8-96 Zoning change                                            Table 9
1996
4-   8-12-  Adopting ad valorem tax assessment                       Table 8
1996 96
5-   10-14- Repealing Ord. 6-1981, 2-1991, 3-1994                     
1996 96
6-   10-14- Abolishing office of city attorney                       Not
1996 96                                                              included
2-   2-10-  Adopting a new Code of Ordinances                        Front
1997 97
3-   4-14-  Adopting statement of goals objectives                   Repealed
1997 97
4-   6-6-97 Adopting annual budget FY 97-98                          Table 5
1997
5-   9-8-97 Adopting ad valorem tax                                  Table 8
1997
1-   3-9-98 Amending zoning regulations                              80.002
1998
2-   4-13-  Amending compensation plan                               Table 6
1998 98
3-   - -    Adopting annual budget FY 98-99                          Table 5
1998
4-   5-11-  Annexing unincorporated territory                        Table 2
1998 98
5-   09-14- Adopting ad valorem taxes for 1998                       Table 8
1998 98
6-   10-12- Adopting the 1998 S-1 Supplement to the City's Code of   Front
1998 98     Ordinances
7-   10-12- Amending zoning and subdivision regulations              70.006
1998 98
8-   11-09- Amending regulations for overnight parking of motor      Table 1
1998 98     vehicles, motorcycles or similar type vehicles
1-   04-12- Amending annual budget FY 98-99                          Table 5
1999 99
2-   06-14- Adopting annual budget FY 99-00                          Table 5
1999 99
                                                                     70.100-
3-   08-09- Relating to accessory buildings and improvements         70.102,
1999 99                                                              70.104 ,
                                                                     70.999
4-   - -    Adopting ad valorem taxes for 1999                       Table 8
1999
5-   - -    Adopting the 1999 S-2 Supplement to the Code of          Front
1999        Ordinances
                                                                     70.100-
6-   10-11- Relating to accessory buildings and improvements         70.102,
1999 99                                                              70.104 ,
                                                                     70.999
1-   01-10- Adopting the Cornerstone 2020 Comprehensive Plan         80.001
2000 00     Statement of Goals and Objectives and Plan Elements
2-   05-08- Authorizing and directing the city to participate in the Table 6
2000 00     County Employees Retirement System
3-   6-12-  Adopting annual budget FY 00-01                          Table 5
2000 00
4-   - -    Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2000                       Table. 8
2000
5-   - -    Not Adopted                                               
2000
6-   - -    Renumbered and adopted 3-12-01 as Ord. 1, Series 2001     
2000
7-   11-13- Amending zoning district regulations of the Development  80.002
2000 00     Code
8-   12-11- Relating to the enforcement of binding elements of       Table 10
2000 00     approved land use development plans
                                                                     70.100-
1-   3-12-  Relating to accessory buildings and improvements         70.102,
2001 01                                                              70.104 ,
                                                                     70.999
2-   7-9-01 Amending motor vehicle regulations                       Table 1
2001
3-   6-11-  Adopting budget for FY 2001-2002                         Table 5
2001 01
5-   9-10-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2001                       Table 8
2001 01
6-   9-10-  Adopting the Development Code by reference               80.002
2001 01
7-   12-10- Adopting the 2001 S-3 Supplement to the City's Code of   Front
2001 01     Ordinances
1-   3-11-  Amending Zoning regulations pertaining to square footage 80.003
2002 02     requirements
2-   2-11-  Relating to the regulation of vehicle weight limits      40.002
2002 02
4-   3-11-  Issuance of bonds                                        Table 3
2002 02
5-   6-10-  Adopting budget for FY 2002-2003                         Table. 5
2002 02
6-   8-12-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2002                       Table 8
2002 02
1-   3-10-  Repealing the current Development Code and adopting a    80.002
2003 03     new Land Development Code
2-   6-9-03 Adopting budget for FY 2003-2004                         Table 5
2003
3-   8-11-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2003                       Table 8
2003 03
1-   1-12-  Establishing Helmsdale and Tattenham as streets with no  40.100
2004 04     parking
2-   2-9-04 Relating to the regulation of parking trucks and certain Table 1
2004        vehicles
3-   4-12-  Amending non-partisan election regulations               20.002
2004 04
4-   5-10-  Amending budget for FY 2003-2004                         Table 5
2004 04
5-   6-14-  Adopting budget for FY 2004-2005                         Table 5
2004 04
6-   8-9-04 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2004                       Table 8
2004
7-   10-11- Amending vehicle weight limits                           40.002
2004 04
1-   2-14-  Adopting the 2004 S-4 Supplement to the City’s Code of Front
2005 05     Ordinances
2-   Tabled Amending a franchise agreement                           Not
2005                                                                 included
3-   6-13-  Amending budget for FY 2004-2005                         Table 5
2005 05
4-   6-13-  Adopting budget for FY 2005-2006                         Table 5
2005 05
5-   9-12-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2005                       Table 8
2005 05
1-   4-10-  Amending animal regulations                              51.001,
2006 06                                                              51.003
2-   6-12-  Adopting budget for FY 2006-2007                         Table 5
2006 06
3-   8-14-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2006                       Table 8
2006 06
4-   10-9-  Amending no parking areas                                40.100
2006 06
1-   Tabled Amending office of citation officer                      Not
2007                                                                 included
2-   7-16-  Adopting budget for FY 2007-2008                         Table 5
2007 07
3-   6-19-  Amending speed limits                                    40.200
2007 07
4-   7-9-07 Amending budget for FY 2006-2007                         Table 5
2007
5-                                                                   64.001 -
2007 8-7-08 Regulating the use of PODS                               64.004,
                                                                     64.999
6-   8-13-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2007                       Table 8
2007 07
1-   2-27-  Amending the zoning map                                  Table 9
2008 08
2-   Tabled Adopting budget for FY 2008-2009                         Not
2008                                                                 included
3-   Failed Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2008                       Not
2008                                                                 included
4-   Tabled Amending budget for FY 2007-2008                         Not
2008                                                                 included
5-         Number skipped                                            
2008
6-   Tabled Prohibiting street sales and door to door vending        Not
2008                                                                 included
7-   8-19-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2008                       Table 8
2008 08
1-   3-9-09 Adopting budget for FY 2008-2009                         Table 5
2009
2-   Vetoed Regulating the position of citation officer              Not
2009                                                                 included
3-   Vetoed Establishing polices and procedures for issuing          Not
2009        citations                                                included
4-   7-13-  Adopting budget for FY 2009-2010                         Table 5
2009 09
5-   8-10-  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2009                       Table 8
2009 09
6-   8-24-  Amending meeting time and location for City Council      20.250
2009 09     meetings
7-   12-3-  Establishing a procedure for accepting a public roadway  41.010 -
2009 09     for dedication                                           41.012
1-9- 3-4-10 Street closure                                           Not
2010                                                                 included
2-   3-4-10 Street closure                                           Not
2010                                                                 included
3-   3-4-10 Street closure                                           Not
2010                                                                 included
4-   3-4-10 Street closure                                           Not
2010                                                                 included
5-   3-4-10 Establishing the position of citation officer            Table 6
2010
6-   6-3-10 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2010 through     Table 5
2010        June 30, 2011
7-   8-5-10 Adopting ordinance                                       Front
2010
8-   8-5-10 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2009 through     Table 5
2010        June 30, 2010
9-   8-5-10 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2010                       Table 8
2010
1-                                                                   60.001,
2011 3-3-11 Business licenses                                        60.999,
                                                                     Table 1
2-   6-2-11 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2011 through     Table 5
2011        June 30, 2012
3-   7-7-11 Awarding financial institution franchises                Table 4
2011
4-   8-4-11 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2010 through     Table 5
2011        June 30, 2011
5-   8-4-11 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2011                       Table 8
2011
2-   8-2-12 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2011 through     Table 5
2012        June 30, 2012
3-   8-2-12 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2012                       Table 8
2012
4-   10-4-  Parking                                                  Not
2012 12                                                              included
1-   6-6-13 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2013 through     Table 5
2013        June 30, 2014
2-   7-3-13 Regulating use of firearms                               Table 1
2013
3-   8-1-13 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2013                       Table 8
2013
4-   9-5-13 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2012 through     Table 5
2013        June 30, 2013
5-   11-7-  Licenses                                                 62.003
2013 13
1-   3-6-14 Awarding community antenna franchise                     Table 4
2014
2-   5-1-14 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2013 through     Table 5
2014        June 30, 2014
3-   6-5-14 Fences                                                   Table 1
2014
                                                                     70.100,
1-   10-6-  Building regulations                                     70.103,
2016 16                                                              70.104,
                                                                     T.S.O. 1
1-   2-2-17 Adopting ordinance                                       Front
2017
2-   5-3-17 Pay classification plan and salaries                     Not
2017                                                                 included
3-   6-22-  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2017 through     Table 5
2017 17     June 30, 2018
4-   7-6-17 Amending the zoning map                                  Table 9
2017
5-   8-3-17 Parking restrictions                                     40.102
2017
6-   Failed Parking requirements for trailers                        Not
2017                                                                 included
7-   9-7-17 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2017                       Table 8
2017
9-   12-7-                                                           50.001 -
2017 17     Nuisances                                                50.007,
                                                                     Table 1
1-   6-20-  Adopting the Cornerstone 2040 Comprehensive Plan         80.001
2018 18     Statement of Goals and Objectives and Plan Elements
2-   6-20-  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2018 through     Table 5
2018 18     June 30, 2019
3-   8-2-18 Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2017 through     Table 5
2018        June 30, 2018
4-   8-2-18 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2018                       Table 8
2018
1-                                                                   52.001,
2019 2-7-19 Signage regulations                                      52.999,
                                                                     Table 1
                                                                     63.001 -
2-   3-7-19 Insurance companies                                      63.008,
2019                                                                 63.999,
                                                                     Table 1
3-   6-6-19 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2019 through     Table 5
2019        June 30, 2020
4-   7-3-19 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2019                       Table 8
2019
5-   7-3-19 Amending budget for fiscal year July 1, 2018 through     Table 5
2019        June 30, 2019
6-   10-3-  Investment policy                                        27.001 -
2019 19                                                              27.013
                                                                     40.001,
                                                                     40.003 -
1-                                                                   40.012,
2020 8-6-20 Parking of motor vehicles                                40.999;
                                                                     renumbering
                                                                     40.103 as
                                                                     40.100
2-   6-4-20 Dumpsters and portable storage containers                64.005,
2020                                                                 64.999
3-          Establishing Tree Board; planting, maintenance and       22.102,
2020 5-7-20 removal of trees and shrubs                              53.001,
                                                                     53.002
4-   6-4-20 Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2020                       Table 8
2020
5-   7-2-20 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2020 through     Table 5
2020        June 30, 2021
6-   8-6-20 Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2019 through     Table 5
2020        June 30, 2020
7-   11-5-  Adopting ordinance                                       Front
2020 20
                                                                   
 
Ord. No Date Description Section
Ord. No Date     Description                                          Section
1-2021  6-3-21   Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2021 through Table 5
                 June 30, 2022
2-2021  8-5-21   Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2021                   Table 8
4-2021  12-2-21  Awarding electric and natural gas franchise          Table 4
                 Fixing the compensation for the Mayor and adopting a
5-2021  1-19-22  method to annually recompute the salaries of elected Table 6
                 officials
1-2022  6-15-22  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2022 through Table 5
                 June 30, 2023
2-2022  6-15-22  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2022                   Table 8
3-2022  12-12-22 Amending the zoning map                              Table 9
1-2023  2-2-23   Adopting a city officials incentive program          20.006
2-2023  3-16-23  Amending regulations for the Recreational Committee  22.001 -
                                                                      22.004
4-2023  7-6-23   Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2023                   Table 8
5-2023  6-22-23  Adopting a budget for fiscal year July 1, 2023       Table 5
                 through June 30, 2024
                                                                      80.100 -
6-2023  1-4-24   Amending zoning procedures                           80.102,
                                                                      80.105
2-2024  2-1-24   Amending City Council meeting hours                  20.250
3-2024  6-19-24  Adopting ad valorem taxes for 2024                   Table 8
4-2024  6-19-24  Adopting budget for fiscal year July 1, 2024 through Table 5
                 June 30, 2025
5-2024  9-5-24   Establishing social media use policy for city        26.105
                 officials and employees
6-2024  12-5-24  Amending land development code                       80.002
                 Amending Tree Board; planting maintenance and        22.102,
7-2024  2-6-25   trimming standards                                   53.001,
                                                                      53.002
                                                                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS SECTION CODE SECTION
KRS SECTION                 CODE SECTION
6.955 to 6.975              23.004
18A.225                     63.004
Chapter 31                  24.107
41.240                      27.008
6.955 to 6.975              23.004
41.240(4)                   23.005
42.450 - 42.495             23.004
Chapter 45A                 24.107
Chapter 56                  24.107
Chapter 61                  20.251
61.168                      24.107
61.169                      24.107
61.805-61.850               25.105
61.805(1)                   25.001
61.805(2)                   25.001
61.805(3)                   25.001
61.805(4)                   25.001
61.805(5)                   25.001
61.810                      26.405
61.815                      25.101
61.820                      25.102,
                            25.104
61.823                      25.103,
                            25.104
61.823(4)                   25.104
61.826                      25.104
61.846                      25.105
61.848                      25.105
61.870                      24.001
61.870(1)                   24.001
61.870(2)                   24.001
61.870(3)                   24.001
61.870(4)                   24.001
61.870(5)                   24.001
61.870(6)                   24.001
61.870(7)                   24.001
61.870(8)                   24.001
61.870(10)                  24.001
61.872 - 61.884             24.101
61.872 - 61.884             26.104
61.872(1)                   24.100
61.872(2)                   24.100
61.872(3)                   24.100
61.872(4)                   24.101
61.872(5)                   24.102
61.872(6)                   24.103
61.874(5)                   24.100
61.874(6)                   24.100
61.876                      24.100
61.876(4)                   24.100
61.878                      24.001,
                            24.107
61.880 - 61.882             24.104
61.880                      24.104
61.880(1)                   24.107
61.882                      24.104
61.884                      24.106,
                            26.409
Chapter 64                  20.006
66.480                      27.001,
                            27.008
66.480(1)(a)                27.008
66.480(1)(b)                27.008
66.480(1)(c)                27.008
66.480(1)(d)                27.008
66.480(1)(e)                27.008
66.480(1)(f)                27.008
66.480(1)(g)                27.008
66.480(1)(h)                27.008
66.480(1)(i)                27.008
66.480(1)(j)                27.008
66.480(1)(k)                27.008
66.480(1)(l)                27.008
66.480(2)                   27.008
66.480(2)(a)                27.009
66.480(2)(b)                27.009
66.480(2)(d)(1) - (2)(d)(4) 27.009
76.170                      31.001
Chapter 78                  20.006
82.400(3)                   41.011
Chapter 83A                 20.001 ,
                            20.006
83A.010(6)                  10.002
83A.010 (7)                 10.002
83A.010(8)                  10.002
83A.010(9)                  10.002
83A.010(10)                 10.002
83A.010(11)                 10.002
83A.020                     20.001
83A.030                     20.001,
                            20.200
83A.040(1)                  20.101 -
                            20.103
83A.040(2)                  20.104
83A.040(4)                  20.201 -
                            20.203
83A.040(6)                  20.104,
                            20.204
83A.040(7)                  20.105,
                            20.205
83A.040(9)                  20.206
83A.043                     20.002
83A.045                     20.002
83A.045(2)                  20.002
83A.045(2)(b)(6)            20.002
                            20.253,
83A.060                     20.256,
                            20.255
83A.060(15)                 20.207
83A.065                     10.002
83A.070                     20.004,
                            20.208
83A.070(2)                  20.208
83A.070(3)                  20.208
83A.075                     Table 6
83A.080                     Chapter 21
                            20.001,
83A.130                     20.208,
                            20.251
83A.130(5)                  20.252
83A.130(7)                  20.107
83A.130(10)                 20.104
83A.170                     20.100,
                            20.200
83A.175(2) - (6)            20.002
91A.010(6)                  23.001
91A.010(7)                  23.001
91A.010(8)                  10.002
91A.020                     23.002
91A.030                     23.003
91A.040                     23.004
91A.060                     23.005 ,
                            27.001
91A.080                     63.008,
                            63.999
91A.080(12)                 63.001
91A.210-270                 41.012
91A.510 - 91A.530           22.004
92.330                      22.004
Chapter 97                  22.001
Chapter 116 - 121           20.002
Chapter 118                 20.002
131.010(6)                  63.005
131.190                     24.107
Chapter 154                 24.107
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e.     24.001
241.010                     62.002
Chapter 243                 62.002,
                            62.005
243.070                     62.003
Chapter 244                 62.002
244.290(4)                  62.005
Chapter 281                 40.010
Chapter 304                 63.999
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B   63.004
Chapter 337                 20.006
Chapter 342                 63.004
381.770                     50.006
Chapter 424                 23.004
424.120                     23.004
424.220                     23.004
Chapter 446                 62.002
446.010                     10.010
446.010(1)                  10.002
446.010(9)                  10.002
446.010(10)                 10.002
446.010(14)                 10.002
446.010(17)                 10.002
446.010(18)                 10.002
446.010(23)                 10.002
446.010(26)                 10.002
446.010(27)                 10.002
446.010(28)                 10.002
446.010(31)                 10.002
446.010(33)                 10.002
446.010(37)                 10.002
446.010(43)                 10.002
446.010(49)                 10.002
446.010(38)                 10.002
446.020(1)                  10.003
446.020(2)                  10.003
446.060(1)                  10.004
446.080(3)                  10.003
446.080(4)                  10.003
446.090                     10.005
446.110                     10.006
532.090(1)                  10.002
534.040(2)(a)               10.002
534.040(2)(c)               10.002
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code Section This Code Section
1990 Code Section This Code Section
Ch. 7             31.002
1.1               20.001(A)
1.2.1             20.003
1.2.11            80.106
1.2               20.200
1.3               20.100
1.3               20.105(C)
1.5               21.001
1.5               21.002
1.5               62.005
1.6               21.100
1.6               21.101
1.7               21.200
1.7               21.201
1.8               21.003
1.8               21.004
1.8               21.101
1.8               21.102
1.8               21.202
1.8               21.203
1.9.2             20.255
1.9.3             20.253
1.9.4             20.252
1.9.5             20.255
1.9.6             20.254
1.9               20.250(A)
1.9               20.255
1.10.1            20.255
1.10.1            20.255
1.10.11           20.005
1.10.12           20.255
1.10.13           20.256(G)
1.10.14           20.255
1.10.2            20.255
1.10.3            20.255
1.10.4            20.255
1.10.5            20.255
1.10.6            20.255
1.10.7            20.255
1.10.8            20.255
1.10.9            20.255
1.11              21.101
1.11.1            21.101
1.11.2            21.101
1.12              30.001
1.12.1            30.001
1.12.2            30.001
1.12.3            30.001
1.13.1            22.102(A)
1.13.1            22.100
1.13.2            22.101
1.14.1            Not Included
1.14.2            Not Included
1.14.3            Not Included
2.1               60.001
2.2               51.002
2.3               51.001
2.4               52.001
2.5.1             52.100
2.5.2             52.101
2.5.3             52.102
2.6               52.001
2.7.1             60.999
2.7.2             51.999
2.7.3             51.999
2.7.4             52.999
2.7.5             52.999
3.1               40.001
3.2.1             40.002
3.2.2             40.002
3.2.3             40.002
3.3.1             40.100
3.4.1             40.103
3.4.2             40.103
3.4.3             40.103
3.5.1             40.101
3.5.2             40.101
3.6.1             40.200
3.6.2             40.201
3.7.1             40.102
3.7.2             40.102
3.7.3             40.102
3.8.1             40.999
3.8.2             40.999
3.8.3             40.999
3.8.4             40.999
3.8.6             40.999
4.1.2             80.001
4.1.3             80.002
4.1.4             80.001
4.2.1             80.100
4.2.2             80.101
4.2.3             80.101
4.2.3             80.102
4.2.4             80.102
4.2.5             80.102
4.2.6             80.103
4.2.7             80.105
4.2.8             80.105
4.2.9             80.105
4.2.10            80.104
4.3               80.003
4.4.1             70.003
4.4.2             70.005
4.4.2             70.001
4.4.2             70.004
4.4.2             70.002
4.4.2             70.014
4.4.3             70.008
4.4.4             70.006
4.4.5             70.007
4.4.6             70.009
4.4.7             70.009
4.4.8             70.010
4.4.9             70.011
4.4.10            70.011
4.4.11            70.011
4.4.12            70.012
4.4.13            70.007
4.4.14            70.015
4.4.15            70.013
4.4.16            Not Included
4.5.1             41.003
4.5.2             41.004
4.5.3             41.005
4.5.4             41.006
4.5.5             Not Included
4.5               41.002
4.6.1             50.102
4.6.1             50.103
4.6.2             50.104
4.6               50.100
4.6               50.101
4.7.1             70.999
4.7.2             41.999
5.1               62.001
5.2.1             62.002
5.2.2             62.003
5.2.2             62.004
5.3               62.005
5.4               62.002
5.5               62.999
6.1               Table 5
6.2               Table 5
8.1               Table 5
8.2               Table 5
8.3               Table 5
                  
 
