DRY RIDGE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 911-2024, passed 12-16-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the City
of Dry Ridge, Kentucky Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division
heads or titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Dry Ridge, Kentucky, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Grant County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
38.   CITY EMPLOYEES AND EQUIPMENT
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Bond
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37   Assistant City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   City Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of                                according to law; and I
do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I, being a citizen of this state, have not fought a duel with
deadly weapons within this state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a
challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in
carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help
me God,” as established by § 228 of the Constitution of the state.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person’s hands or
under that person’s control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS Chapter 65) (Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Department for Local
Government computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of the
state, which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid
at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than
the first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than
$7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the employment and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the City
Treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The election of city officers of the city shall be as provided
in KRS 83A.043, 83A.045, 83A.170 and 83A.175.
         (a)   The city, in accordance with the authority granted to it by KRS
83A.050, elects that no person shall be nominated and/or elected as its Mayor
or as a member of its City Council except pursuant to non-partisan city
election laws as provided in KRS 83A.170.
         (b)   The city elects that election to fill a vacancy in office or in
candidacy for each elective office of the city shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of KRS 83A.175.
      (2)   The city elects to forgo the conduct of a primary election for
nomination of candidates to city elective offices, as provided within KRS
83A.045.
      (3)   All candidates for city elective offices shall file their
nomination papers with the clerk of the county court not later than the second
Tuesday in August before the day fixed for the regular elections so provided
for within KRS Chapter 118.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under the provisions of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but
no existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 411-1987, passed 1-19-1987; Ord. 88-435, passed 10-
3-1988)
Statutory references:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on January 1 following his or her election and shall be for four years and
until his or her successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as
Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then
that period of service shall not be considered for purposed of re-election a
term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring after
the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 through 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Failure to fill vacancy. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (E)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
   (F)   Compensation. The Mayor shall receive as compensation for his or her
services the sum of $3,500 annually. Said compensation shall be paid twice
yearly during each calendar year of the term of office in the sum and amount of
$1,750 each on the first business day of July and December of the calendar year
of the current term of office.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. 563-1997, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will, and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   Assistant City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (3)   City Attorney; and
      (4)   City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 31.35) (Ord. 861-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer in the governmental
organization of the city are hereby consolidated.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city, if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members and the correct name, telephone number
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of the City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085(3))
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.03.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
state and has provided bond, if required, with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 297, passed 10-4-1976)
§ 31.37 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   There is created the office of Assistant City Clerk/Treasurer of the
city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are established as follows: under
general supervision of the City Clerk/Treasurer, the Assistant Clerk/Treasurer
shall assist in the performance of the duties of the office of City Clerk/
Treasurer and perform any other duties as set forth in the employment policy of
the city.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Assistant City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be that set forth in § 228 of the Constitution of the state.
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Assistant Clerk/Treasurer
shall execute bond to the city, with a corporate surety authorized and
qualified to become surety on bond in this state, in the amount as established
by Council.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be in an amount as established by
ordinance of City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.37)
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be employed by the city on a contractual basis
and shall serve as the general law officer and legal counsel of the city. He or
she shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the state. He or she shall be
chosen solely on the basis of his or her legal qualifications, with special
emphasis on actual experience in or knowledge of state municipal and
administrative law. The City Attorney may also engage in the private practice
of law and may hold other public or private employment.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall advise the Mayor, the City Council and all
other city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their
municipal duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for the
defend the city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which
the city is a party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and in
behalf of the city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights
or interests of the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions,
orders and legal instruments as the Council may direct and generally shall
attend to all legal business of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.50)
§ 31.39 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Job descriptions and titles. The city adopts the following job
description and title for the City Administrator:
      (1)   Under the direction of the Mayor, direct and supervise all
department heads and employees in the efficient delivery of municipal services;
      (2)   Establish and maintain an organizational structure of offices,
departments, positions and units within the city in the interest of efficient,
effective and economical conduct of the city’s business;
      (3)   Plan, organize, coordinate and direct economic development
activities of the city development and implement long-range strategies to
ensure the economic health and vitality of the city; and
      (4)   Coordinate with other city departments to ensure long-term, quality
economic growth in the city, act as liaison with state and federal agencies in
obtaining grants and oversees and manages the building and zoning, codes and
nuisance enforcement activity of the city.
   (B)   Essential functions. The City Administrator shall:
      (1)   Manage the day-to-day operations and internal affairs of the city;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor of the city in policy formulation on overall
problems of the city;
      (3)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the executive
authority;
      (4)   Advise the Mayor of the city in the appointment of subordinate
administrative personnel if not delegated appointment authority by appropriate
order;
      (5)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs;
      (6)   Develop policies, procedures and processes as needed to implement
the decisions of the Mayor and City Council;
      (7)   Liaison with other governmental and service agencies;
      (8)   Recommend to the Mayor appointments of department heads and staffs
as provided by state laws and/or local ordinances;
      (9)   Assist in the preparation of the annual budget and capital
improvement programs and submit estimates to authorized elected officials for
approval;
      (10)   Monitor overall fiscal activity of the city to assure compliance
with established budget;
      (11)   Develop relationships with and assists existing businesses;
      (12)   Recruit new businesses;
      (13)   Assist in the planning for future development of commercial,
industrial and residential areas;
      (14)   Recommend zoning regulations as they apply to community and
economic development;
      (15)   Recommend code and nuisance regulations as they apply to the
community;
      (16)   Ensure all building, zoning, codes and nuisance violations are
addressed and corrected in a timely manner;
      (17)   Assist in developing and implementing economic incentive programs
for the city;
      (18)   Develop and oversee programs for increasing property values while
ensuring affordable housing at all price points;
      (19)   Maintain an effective working relationship with the County Chamber
of Commerce, the County Joint Industrial Authority, Northern Kentucky Chamber
of Commerce, State Cabinet for Economic Development, State Association for
Economic Development and other related organizations;
      (20)   Complete special projects as assigned by the Mayor; and
      (21)   Perform the duties of the Building and Zoning Administrator as
needed.
   (C)   Pay/wage plan. Further, the city adopts a new pay/wage plan for this
nonelected officer position to coincide with the new job title and job
description. The pay band for this the position of the City Administrator shall
be a Grade 113.
(Ord. 861-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
   
32.18   Parliamentary procedure
   
32.19   Order of business
   
32.20   Council member discussion
   
32.21   Amendment
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
the first day of January following the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. The salary and compensation for the elected office of
Council member, for the next elective term beginning on January 1, 2019, is
hereby fixed and established at the amount of $3,000. This sum shall be
received by and payable to each of the city’s duly elected Council members,
annually in a single lump sum payment, under warrant drawn upon the City
Treasury and funds during each calendar year of the term of office in the month
of December, and remitted at the regular meeting of the City Council in the
month of December.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 584-1999, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.130(5), the Mayor of the city shall preside at the
meetings of the City Council. In the absence of the Mayor at any meeting of the
City Council, the member of the City Council who is present at that meeting and
who received the greatest number of votes at the last general election thereof
shall preside at that meeting.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be
conducted at the City Building at 31 Broadway Street, Dry Ridge, Grant County,
Kentucky, at 6:00 p.m., prevailing time, on the third Monday of each calendar
month, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which event the regular monthly
meeting shall be conducted at the same time and place on the fourth Monday of
the same calendar month.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the City Council may be called
by the Mayor or upon written request of a majority of the City Council. In the
call, the Mayor or Council shall designate the purpose, time and place of the
special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members
and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61. At a special meeting, no business may
be considered other than that set forth in the designation of purpose. The
Mayor and City Council shall try and conduct all special meetings on Mondays.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.060, unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of
the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum and a vote of a
majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to take action.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.18 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, meetings of the City Council
shall be conducted pursuant to the latest edition of Robert’s Rules of Order.
In the absence of a rule applicable to a particular procedural issue, the issue
shall be determined by the presiding officer, but subject to an immediate
appeal to City Council by any member thereof.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Unless otherwise decided by Mayor or the City Council at the beginning of
any regular meeting thereof, the order of business at regular meetings of the
City Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Invocation: Divine guidance may be asked by the clergyman or layman;
   (B)   Call to order: At the time appointed by ordinance for the regular
meeting of the members of the City Council, the presiding officer shall call
the meeting to order;
   (C)   Pledge to the flag: All present are requested to participate;
   (D)   Roll call: The Clerk/Treasurer shall note in the minutes the names of
those members present when the meeting is called to order. The Clerk/Treasurer
shall note in the minutes the names of those members who take their seat after
the call to order, noting their time of arrival;
   (E)   Minutes: The proposed minutes of the proceedings of the previous
regular meeting and of all intervening special meetings shall be reviewed,
corrected and approved by the members of the City Council; and signed by the
presiding officer and attested by the Clerk/Treasurer;
   (F)   Approval of agenda: The agenda shall be reviewed, corrected and
approved by the members of the City Council. This must be done in the form of a
motion;
   (G)   Special presentations;
   (H)   Mayor’s report;
   (I)   Reports of city operations: Regular monthly reports of the Chief of
Police, Fire/EMS Chief, City Clerk/Treasurer, Public Works Director and any
other report that may be required from time to time, shall be submitted to
Council, in writing, prior to the call to order. The City Attorney shall be
queried at each regular meeting for an oral report of activities and/or
recommendations;
   (J)   Correspondence: Correspondence addressed to Council and other
correspondence which, in the opinion of the Mayor and/or Administrator, should
be brought to the attention of Council, shall be publicly read and appropriate
action taken by Council;
   (K)   Bids;
   (L)   Unfinished business: The presiding officer shall call for unfinished
business and recognize those members of Council who desire to present
petitions, communications or introduce motions. There shall be no interruption
of business under this call;
   (M)   New business: The presiding officer shall call for new business and
recognize those members of Council who desire to present petitions,
communications or introduce motions. There shall be no interruption of business
under this call;
   (N)   Legislation:
      (1)   Municipal orders and resolutions shall be read by title only and
acted upon separately;
      (2)   Newly introduced ordinances shall be read by title and summary,
without any vote; and
      (3)   Ordinances previously read for the first time at any previous
meeting of the City Council shall be read a second time by title and summary,
and submitted to the City Council for the vote thereof.
   (O)   Announcements; and
   (P)   Adjournment: Adjournment may be by motion or declaration of the
presiding officer.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.20 COUNCIL MEMBER DISCUSSION.
   (A)   Right to speak. Other than those procedures that are in order pursuant
Robert’s Rules when another member of the City Council has been recognized by
the presiding officer as having the exclusive right to speak at that time, no
member of the City Council may speak to the other members thereof without first
being recognized by the presiding officer as having the exclusive right
therefor at that time. The desire of a member to speak shall be indicated by
raising his or her hand. The presiding officer shall recognize the members
entitled to speak by pronouncing their names in the order that their hands were
raised. In speaking, the members shall confine their remarks to the question
under debate and shall avoid personalities.
   (B)   Limitation of discussion. No member shall be allowed to speak more
than once upon any one subject until every other member desiring to speak shall
have spoken, nor more than twice upon the same subject, nor for a time longer
than five minutes, without leave of the City Council as expressed by a majority
vote of the members present.
   (C)   Manner of voting. All votes of the members of the City Council shall
be viva voice; and their votes on ordinances shall be by roll call. Their votes
on anything else shall be by roll call only if requested by the Mayor or any
member of the City Council.
   (D)   Division of question. A question under consideration that involves two
or more issues shall be divided according to those issues upon the request of
any member of the City Council therefore prior to the commencement of the vote
thereon.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 32.21 AMENDMENT.
   These rules of procedure in this subchapter may be amended only by the
adoption of an ordinance in regard thereto.
(Ord. 857-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Dry Ridge.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The readings of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return; by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provision of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common land marks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
   (D)   All applicants requesting administrative actions requiring the
publication of legal notices or publication of ordinances, or documentation of
the actions of officials, shall pay to the city the city’s actual publication
expenses or costs, which cost shall be not less than $100.
(Prior Code, § 32.43) (Ord. 574-1998, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lesson
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and § 43 of the
state Constitution
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget procedure
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. The standards for audit
of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued by the
Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. The standards and
procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUDGET OFFICER. The Mayor.
      BUDGET YEAR. The fiscal year for which a budget is made.
      CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The City Clerk/Treasurer.
      CURRENT YEAR. The fiscal year in which a budget is prepared and adopted,
that is the fiscal year next preceding the budget year.
      PREVIOUS YEAR. The last complete fiscal year before the current year.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt rules governing the
City Council in its proceedings for administering the financial affairs of the
city and to establish a standard procedure for the making and administration of
budgets, to place responsibility for the tasks related to budget preparation
and administration, the determination of the amount of taxes and other revenues
in such manner that budgets may be balanced on the basis of actual cash
receipts within the budget period, the establishment of appropriations, the
payment of debt and the control of other expenditures. Its provisions are
intended to enable the Council to make financial plans for both current and
capital expenditures and to permit taxpayers and investors to form intelligent
opinions based on sufficient information as to the financial policies and
administration or the city. For the accomplishment of this purpose, the
provisions of this section shall be broadly construed and shall be in effect
until repealed or amended. This section may be repealed or amended by a
majority vote or the Council in the same manner as required by state statutes.
   (C)   Powers and duties. Within the provisions and for the purpose or this
section, officers and employees shall have the power and be subject to the
duties expressly stated or necessarily implied.
   (D)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of each year.
   (E)   Procedure for adoption or budget.
      (1)   Preparation and submission or budget. The Budget Officer, after
review or the City Council Finance Committee, shall submit to the City Council
a budget and an explanatory budget message. The budget shall include the
following:
         (a)   Organization units within the department or agency; and
         (b)   Object or expenditure-personal services, contractual services,
materials and supplies, other expenses, capital outlay and such other
supporting data as necessary.
      (2)   Adoption or budget. The budget shall be adopted by the favorable
votes or at least a majority or all the members of the governing body.
      (3)   Effective date of budget; certification; copies. Upon final
adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy of the
budget, as finally adopted, shall be certified by the Budget Officer and the
Clerk/Treasurer and filed in the office or the Chief Financial Officer. The
budget, so certified, shall be printed or otherwise reproduced and sufficient
copies thereof shall be made available for the use or all offices, department
and agencies and for the use or interested persons and civic organizations. A
summary shall be published in accordance with KRS 424.240.
      (4)   Budget established appropriations. From the effective date of the
budget, the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be
and become appropriated to the several objects and purposes therein named.
   (F)   Contents and form of budget.
      (1)   Budget.
         (a)   The budget shall provide a complete program and financial plan
for all General Fund revenues for the budget year. It shall contain in tabular
form:
            1.   A general summary;
            2.   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues applicable to
proposed expenditures; and
            3.   All proposed expenditures.
         (b)   The total or such anticipated revenues shall equal the total or
such proposed expenditures.
      (2)   Proposed expenditures. The proposed expenditures shall be itemized
as set out in division (E)(1) above and each item numbered generally in
accordance with the classification system recommended in the State Municipal
Accounting Manual. Separate provisions shall be included in the budget for at
least:
         (a)   Administration, operation and maintenance of each office,
department or agency of the city supported by the General Fund;
         (b)   Contingent expense in an amount not more than 5% of the total
revenue estimated for the budget year; and
         (c)   Expenditures proposed for capital projects.
      (3)   Budget summary. At the head of the budget, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, stating separately the amount to be raised by
property tax, and by departments and kinds of expenditures, in such a manner as
to present to taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of
the budget.
   (G)   Expenditures and appropriations.
      (1)   Approval of expenditures. The Budget Officer shall have charge of
the administration of the financial affairs of the city and to that end shall
supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and have
control over all expenditures to ensure that appropriations are not exceeded.
He or she shall exercise financial budgetary control over each office,
department and agency and shall cause separate accounts to be kept for the
items of appropriation contained in the budget, each of which accounts shall
show the amount of the appropriation, the amounts paid therefrom and the
unencumbered balance. The same classification and numbering system used in the
budget and required by division (F)(2) above shall be used. Unless he or she
shall certify that there is sufficient unencumbered balance available, no
expenditure shall be made.
      (2)   Transfers of appropriations. The Budget Officer may at any time
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof between
general classifications of expenditures within a departmental unit. At the
request of the Budget Officer, the City Council may by ordinance transfer one
departmental unit to another.
      (3)   When contracts and expenditures prohibited. No office, department
or agency shall, during any budget year, expend or contract to expend any money
or incur any liability, or enter into any contract which by its terms involves
the expenditure of money for any purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated
for that general classification of expenditure pursuant to this section. Any
contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this section shall be null
and void.
      (4)   Appropriations lapse at end of year. All appropriations shall lapse
at the end of the budget year to the extent that they shall not have been
expended or lawfully encumbered.
   (H)   Emergency appropriations and borrowing.
      (1)   Emergency appropriations.
         (a)   At any time in any budget year, the governing body may, pursuant
to this division (H)(1), make emergency appropriations to meet a pressing need
for public expenditure, for other than a regular or recurring requirement, to
protect the public health, safety or welfare.
         (b)   The appropriation shall be by ordinance adopted by the favorable
votes or at least a majority of the members of the governing body. The total
amount of all emergency appropriations made in any budget year shall not exceed
the amount of unanticipated actual revenue in excess of the budget estimates,
plus transfers from other appropriations.
      (2)   Borrowing in anticipation of taxes. In any budget year in
anticipation of the collection of the revenues for the budget year, but not in
excess of 50% of such revenue then collected, the governing body may by
resolution borrow money and issue negotiable notes of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 286, passed 5-5-1975)
Statutory reference:
   Annual budget ordinance, see KRS 91A.030
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten days of the completion of
the audit, and its presentation to the city legislative body in accordance with
division (B)(5) below, each city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit
report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements and
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation be presented
to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of such statement.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory Reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the state. The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository
shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALVE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. The
Council may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published, pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments and, if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage, the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement or the amount of his or
her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $50 nor more
than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture
of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which
may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the
city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney
of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include publication or
related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission and authority; every
City Council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY, as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or local officer
or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad
hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of
a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating
the qualifications of public agency employees, established, created or
controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this section; an interagency body
of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC AGENCY is defined in this
section.
(KRS 61.870)
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are
not related to functions, activities, programs or operations funded by state or
local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.22.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of nonexempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include the portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.22, any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request or complete a written application for such records at the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer during regular office hours, except during
legal holidays. The application shall be hand delivered, mailed or sent via
facsimile to the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
(KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870(1), and the requested records are
immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection.
Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of any public agency without the written permission of
the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   An applicant may inspect public records during the regular business
hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public records from the city
through the mail if the applicant’s residence or principal place of business is
outside of the county in which the city is located and he or she has precisely
described public records which are available within the city. If the person
requesting the public records requests that the records be mailed, the official
custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of all fees and the cost of
mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2)(b))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to division (G) above;
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license or other agreement with
the agency and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; or
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in division (G) above.
(KRS 61.874(6))
(Prior Code, § 34.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) from
receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is given
for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which the public
record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he or she shall proceed
under the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s
request, the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If, upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney
General reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or
in part, the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within 30 days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the circuit
court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or if the
city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney General’s
opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in circuit
court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880 and 61.882)
(Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if opened would
permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records; and
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
in conjunction with an application or the administration of a loan or grant; in
conjunction with an application for or the administration of assessments,
incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or for the grant or review of a license to
do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records the
disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the state. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records, when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics, maps
or specifications of structural elements, floor plans and operating, utility or
security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased or
maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records, when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a
criminal act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)5. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the State Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs; and
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the State General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law, being
KRS 61.870(1).
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee, applicant
or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the right to
inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing criminal
or administrative investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
35.15   Meetings open to the public
   
35.16   Requirements for closed sessions
   
35.17   Public meeting schedules
   
35.18   Special meetings
   
35.19   Video teleconferences
   
35.20   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION TAKEN. A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. MEMBER does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission and authority; every
City Council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a public agency, as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a public agency, state or local officer,
or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad
hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of
a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating
the qualifications of public agency employees, established, created or
controlled by a public agency as defined in this section; an interagency body
of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC AGENCY is defined in this
section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE. One meeting, occurring in two or more locations, where
individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
(Prior Code, § 34A.01)
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 35.15 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline or dismissal of an individual employee, member or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s or student’s right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his or her
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency’s
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   The portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
State General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of division (A) above, shall be subject to the
requirements of division (A) above. Nothing in this division (B) shall be
construed to prohibit discussion between individual members where the purpose
of the discussion is to educate the members on specific issues.
(KRS 61.810) (Prior Code, § 34A.05)
§ 35.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those agencies authorized by §
35.15(A)(1) and (A)(4) except as (A)(4) relates to students.
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session and the specific provision of §
35.15 authorizing the closed session.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session.
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session.
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
35.15(A)(2), (A)(3) and (A)(4), but only so far as §
35.15(A)(4) relates to students, (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(9) and (A)
(10) are excluded from the requirements of division (A) above.
(KRS 61.815) (Prior Code, § 34A.06)
§ 35.17 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820) (Prior Code, § 34A.07)
§ 35.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (F) below, special meetings shall be
held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   The presiding officer of a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting.
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and actions at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public
agency may, periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year,
inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written request
or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new written
request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (D)(1)
above by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public agency
members and media organizations that have filed a written request with the
public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine or mail.
The written request shall include the electronic mail address or addresses of
the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this division (F) shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable effort, under emergency
circumstances, to notify the members of the agency, media organizations which
have filed a written request pursuant to this section and the public of the
emergency meeting. At the beginning of the emergency meeting, the person
chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for the record the emergency
circumstances preventing compliance with the notice requirements of this
section. These comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussion and action at
the emergency meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the meeting
is called.
(KRS 61.823) (Prior Code, § 34A.08)
§ 35.19 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820 or 61.823, as appropriate, and, in addition, the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify a primary location of the video teleconference
where all members can be seen and heard and the public may attend in accordance
with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure, with regard to participation, distribution of
materials and other matters, shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
(KRS 61.826) (Prior Code, § 34A.09)
§ 35.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 through 61.850.
(Prior Code, § 34A.10)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   County assessment adopted
   
36.02   Ad valorem taxes on real and personal property
   
36.03   Franchise tax on corporations and franchises
   
36.04   Due date; delinquency
   
36.05   Discount for prepayment
   
36.06   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles and watercraft
   
36.07   Disposition of funds
   
36.08   Lien on property assessed for taxes
§ 36.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the county assessment for all real and personal property situated within
the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 504-1993, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 522-1994, passed
10-3-1994; Ord. 533-1995, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 546-1996, passed 10-14-1996;
Ord. 566-1997, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 581-1998, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 597-
1999, passed 10-4-1999; Ord. 610-2000, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 619-2001, passed
10-1-2001; Ord. 630-2002, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 676-2005, passed 9-19-2005;
Ord. 699-2006, passed 9-18-2006; Ord. 718-2007, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. 734-
2008, passed 9-22-2008; Ord. 748-2009, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 756-2010, passed
9-20-2010; Ord. 761-2011, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 769-2012, passed 9-10-2012;
Ord. 780-2013, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 800-2015, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 8365-
2017, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 851-2018, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 872-2019, passed 8-
26-2019; Ord. 906-2024, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 36.02 AD VALOREM TAXES ON REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city hereby levies upon all real property and all estates and
interests therein and thereto, being so situated or located within the
incorporated limits of the city on January 1 of each year a tax at the rate and
in the sum and amount set by City Council from time to time.
   (B)   The city hereby levies upon all personal property and all estates and
interests therein and thereto, being so situated or located within the
incorporated limits of the city on January 1 of each year, or such other date
for class or category of personal property or personalty as may be otherwise
fixed by statute, regulation or by law for personal property subject to
taxation by the city a tax at the rate and in the sum and amount set by City
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 718-2007, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. 734-2008, passed
9-22-2008; Ord. 748-2009, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 756-2010, passed 9-20-2010;
Ord. 761-2011, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 769-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 780-
2013, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 789-2014, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 800-2015, passed
9-8-2015; Ord. 820-2016, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 8365-2017, passed 9-5-2017;
Ord. 851-2018, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 872-2019, passed 8-26-2019; Ord. 877-2020,
passed 9-21-2020; Ord. 882-2021, passed 9-28-2021; Ord. 892-2022, passed 9-22-
2022; Ord. 901-2023, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 36.03 FRANCHISE TAX ON CORPORATIONS AND FRANCHISES.
   The city hereby levies a franchise tax, at the rates and amounts allowed by
statute, regulation or law as of January 1 of each year, upon all corporations
having their offices or places of business in the city, and upon all such
franchises of corporations so owned or exercised in or within the corporate
limits of the city, and upon those corporations, franchises and entities doing
business within the city, and having offices or places of business outside of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 718-2007, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. 734-2008, passed
9-22-2008; Ord. 748-2009, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 756-2010, passed 9-20-2010;
Ord. 761-2011, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 769-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 780-
2013, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 789-2014, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 800-2015, passed
9-8-2015; Ord. 820-2016, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 8365-2017, passed 9-5-2017;
Ord. 851-2018, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 872-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 36.04 DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY.
   The taxes levied under this chapter on covered real and personal property
shall be due and payable by the hour of 5:00 p.m., prevailing time, on December
30 of each year and, if not then so paid, then the tax duplicate and taxpayer
shall be subject to a penalty of 10% added to the tax bill due, and accrue
interest on the stated tax amount shown due as of December 31, at the rate of
12% per annum from January 1 of the following year until paid, and shall, in
the event of action to collect a delinquent tax account of bill, be subject to
added costs for advertising, distraining fees and other expenses allowed by
law.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 566-1997, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 581-1998, passed
10-5-1998; Ord. 597-1999, passed 10-4-1999; Ord. 610-2000, passed 10-9-2000;
Ord. 619-2001, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 630-2002, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 676-
2005, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 718-2007, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. 734-2008, passed
9-22-2008; Ord. 748-2009, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 756-2010, passed 9-20-2010;
Ord. 761-2011, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 769-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 780-
2013, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 789-2014, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 800-2015, passed
9-8-2015; Ord. 820-2016, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 8365-2017, passed 9-5-2017;
Ord. 851-2018, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 872-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 36.05 DISCOUNT FOR PREPAYMENT.
   Any tax bill or duplicate paid not later than October 31, by the hour of 5:
00 p.m., prevailing time, shall be entitled to a discount reduction of 2% of
the tax shown due and computed as of December 31.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 566-1997, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 597-1999, passed
10-4-1999; Ord. 610-2000, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 619-2001, passed 10-1-2001;
Ord. 630-2002, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 676-2005, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 718-
2007, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. 734-2008, passed 9-22-2008; Ord. 748-2009, passed
9-14-2009; Ord. 756-2010, passed 9-20-2010; Ord. 761-2011, passed 9-12-2011;
Ord. 769-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 780-2013, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 789-
2014, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 800-2015, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 820-2016, passed
9-12-2016; Ord. 8365-2017, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 851-2018, passed 9-6-2018;
Ord. 872-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 36.06 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   Pursuant to law and for the purposes of the tax levied hereunder upon
the valuation of motor vehicles and watercraft so located within and under the
taxing authority of the city, the City Council does for and on behalf of the
city adopt the valuation and assessment made by the State Revenue Cabinet or
the County Property Valuation Administrator, as the case may be, for all motor
vehicles and watercraft covered by this section, and with such valuation and
assessment so fixed and established.
   (B)   The city hereby levies a property tax at the rate and amount allowed
by statute, regulation or law as of January 1 of each year, upon the valuation/
assessment of each and every motor vehicle and watercraft within the
incorporated limits of the city upon the date the herein property tax and the
rate thereof is so hereby fixed and levied on and upon all covered motor
vehicles and watercraft.
   (C)   The property tax levied under this section is to be collected, and
thereafter remitted to the city, by the Sheriff, county court clerk or other
offices or entities to whom such tax is paid, or collected from, or remitted by
the taxpayer or taxpayer’s agent.
   (D)   The foregoing property tax hereby established, fixed and levied shall
be due and payable to the city on the date established by statute applicable to
motor vehicles and watercraft; and, if such tax be not paid when due, any and
all penalties, interest, costs and charges allowed to the city and the
collecting entity, shall be added to the tax due, all for which the city shall
have a lien for debt due and owing, and which the city, its agents and assigns
may enforce, foreclose and collect by appropriate actions.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 503-1993, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 519-1994, passed
9-12-1994; Ord. 532-1995, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 544-1996, passed 9-9-1996;
Ord. 567-1997, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 580-1998, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 595-
1999, passed 9-13-1999; Ord. 609-2000, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 618-2001, passed
10-10-2001; Ord. 629-2002, passed 9-3-2002; Ord. 661-2004, passed 9-2-2004;
Ord. 675-2005, passed 8-12-2005; Ord. 696-2006, passed 8-21-2006; Ord. 717-
2007, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 733-2008, passed 9-22-2008; Ord. 747-2009, passed
9-14-2009; Ord. 755-2010, passed 9-20-2010; Ord. 762-2011, passed 9-12-2011;
Ord. 770-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 779-2013, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 788-
2014, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 799-2015, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 821-2016, passed 9-
12-2016; Ord. 837-2017, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 852-2018, passed 9-4-2018; Ord.
871-2019, passed 8-26-2019; Ord. 878-2020, passed 9-21-2020; Ord. 883-2021,
passed 9-28-2021; Ord. 907-2024, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 36.07 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.07)
§ 36.08 LIEN ON PROPERTY ASSESSED FOR TAXES.
   (A)   The city confirms, reaffirms and provides that it shall have a lien on
the property assessed for taxes, including the real property of the taxpayer,
pursuant to the authority and provisions applicable of KRS 134.420 et seq., as
now enacted or hereafter amended, and § 181 of the Constitution of the state.
   (B)   As a non-exclusive remedy and method for the collection of ad valorem
taxes and tax bills for same due the city, the city hereby adopts the Mass
Foreclosure Act, being KRS Chapter 91, pursuant to and allowed by KRS 92.810,
and so adopts and incorporates herein by reference, the same as if set forth at
length herein, the provisions of KRS 91.484 through 91.527, inclusive, as now
enacted or hereafter amended.
   (C)   As another non-exclusive method and remedy for the collection of ad
valorem taxes, any other taxes and the tax bills for same due the city, in
addition to the procedures and remedies allowed and provided for under the Mass
Foreclosure Act adopted and referred to in division (B) above, the city
provides that the city may bring an action for debt and the collection of taxes
together with the enforcement of any lien or liens therefore in the circuit
and/or district courts of the state, as the case may be, or any other courts
open to the city within or without the state.
   (D)   In order to perfect the lien for taxes herein and to aid in the
collection of said taxes due and the enforcement of the lien for same under the
provisions of the Mass Foreclosure Act hereinabove adopted and allowed as a
remedy, or any other remedy herein provided or allowed by law to and unto the
city, and pursuant to KRS 134.420(1), the City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare,
not later than March 15 of each calendar year following the close of the
preceding tax year, ending on December 31 thereof, from which delinquent and
due tax bills are determined, an alphabetical listing and notice of delinquent
taxpayers for the specific tax year containing the names and address current of
such taxpayer delinquent, the number of the city’s tax bill, the nature of the
tax claim, whether the same is levied on real or personal property or both, the
amount of the principal tax due together with interest thereon to date plus any
other charges, and the address of the property within the city subject to the
city’s tax lien and debt. Such notice and listing shall be under the oath and
seal of the City Clerk/Treasurer, be filed as a lien statement of lis pendens
notice with and within the office of the county court clerk and/or the office
of the county court clerk of any county or counties in which the taxpayer’s
business or residence is located.
   (E)   In addition to the delinquent taxpayer notice and listing required
under KRS 134.420(1) in division (D) above, the City Council may have the City
Clerk/Treasurer prepare and publish a like and similar notice and listing of
uncollected delinquent taxes due the city for local newspaper publication for
which the fee of $3 per name per publication may be added the amount of each
tax claim published as publication costs pursuant to KRS 424.330.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. 732-2008, passed 9-15-2008)
CHAPTER 37: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Human Rights Commission
   
37.01   Membership
   
37.02   Powers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
37.15   Establishment
   
37.16   Members; operation
Police Department
   
37.30   Establishment
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
§ 37.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The City Human Rights Commission shall consist of five members who
shall be appointed on a non-partisan basis and shall be broadly representative
of the financial institutions, real estate, businesses, religious groups, human
rights groups and the general public. The Mayor shall appoint five members to
be approved by the City Council. Of the first five members appointed, one shall
be appointed for one year; two shall be appointed for two years; and two shall
be appointed for three years. Subsequent appointments shall be for three years.
   (B)   In the event of incapacity, death or resignation of any member a
successor shall be appointed for the member’s unexpired term. Members shall be
eligible for reappointment. Before making new appointments or any
reappointments, the Mayor may request the recommendations of the City Council.
No elected or appointed city official shall be a member of the Commission. The
members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 331-1979, passed 7-10-1979; Ord. 358-1980, passed
1-5-1981)
§ 37.02 POWERS.
   The City Human Rights Commission is authorized to do the following:
   (A)   Receive, initiate, investigate, hear and determine charges of
violations of ordinances, orders or resolutions for bidding discrimination
adopted by the city;
   (B)   Compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence
before it by subpoena issued by the county circuit court;
   (C)   Issue remedial orders, after notice and hearing, requiring cessation
of violations;
   (D)   Issue such affirmative orders as in its judgment will carry out the
purposes of this subchapter and Chapter 94;
   (E)   Employ an executive director, attorneys, hearing examiners, clerks and
other employees and agents;
   (F)   Enter into cooperative working agreements with federal or state
agencies to achieve the purposes of this subchapter and Chapter 94; and
   (G)   In its own discretion or upon request of the City Council or the State
Commission on Human Rights refer a matter under its jurisdiction to the State
Commission on Human Rights for initial action or review.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 331-1979, passed 7-10-1979; Ord. 358-1980, passed
1-5-1981)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 37.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city to be known as the City
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 36.20)
§ 37.16 MEMBERS; OPERATION.
   (A)   Fire Chief; Assistant Fire Chief; members.
      (1)   The positions of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief are hereby
established. In addition, the Department shall consist of full-time personnel
and volunteer members as determined by the Mayor and City Council.
      (2)   The positions of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall be
filled by appointment of the Mayor.
   (B)   Operation. The Fire Department shall operate pursuant to rules and
regulations promulgated by the Fire Department and approved by the Mayor and
City Council.
   (C)   Office of Fire Chief.
      (1)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as
those contained or set forth in the state statues and those included in the
position description of the city’s classification plan (as adopted in §
137.01), and related duties as requested or assigned.
      (2)   The oath of office to be executed by the Fire Chief shall be that
as set forth in § 228 of the Constitution of the state.
      (3)   Compensation for this office shall be included in the city’s
compensation plan.
      (4)   The personnel policies and procedures of the city shall apply to
this office.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 658-2004, passed 7-8-2004)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 37.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby duly ordained and established and re-established for
the city a city safety division/department complete with police officers and
personnel of the city being and to be known as the City Police Department.
   (B)   The officers and personnel of the Police Department shall be as
heretofore provided and ordained in and within the city’s personnel policies
and procedures as position descriptions.
(Prior Code, § 36.30) (Ord. 725-2008, passed 3-24-2008)
CHAPTER 38: CITY EMPLOYEES AND EQUIPMENT
Section
Personnel Policies
   
38.01   Employment policies adopted by reference
Use of City Employees and Equipment
   
38.15   Approval from Mayor required
   
38.16   Conditions of use
   
38.17   Labor charges
   
38.18   Equipment charges
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 38.01 EMPLOYMENT POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Policies and Procedures and Classification Plan shall be part of
the system of personnel administration for the city; and is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if
set out at length herein. The Plan shall be at the City Building open for
public inspection during normal working hours.
   (B)   The Policies and Procedures and Classification Plan may be waived,
altered or suspended only by change of ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 415-1987, passed 5-4-1987; Ord. 494-1992, passed
12-7-1992; Ord. 582-1998, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. 596-1999, passed 9-17-1999;
Ord. 612-2000, passed 12-4-2000; Ord. 621-2001, passed 11-5-2001; Ord. 631-
2002, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 633-2003, passed 2-3-2003; Ord. 650-2003, passed
10-6-2003; Ord. 657-2004, passed 7-1-2004; Ord. 659-2004, passed 7-8-2004; Ord.
680-2005, passed 11-24-2005; Ord. 688-2005, passed 12-15-2005; Ord. 690-2006,
passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 691-1006, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 715-2007, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 719-2007, passed 10-31-2007; Ord. 720-2007, passed 10-22-2007;
Municipal Order 2021-03, passed 6-24-2021; Municipal Order 2023-01, passed 6-
19-2023)
USE OF CITY EMPLOYEES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 38.15 APPROVAL FROM MAYOR REQUIRED.
   The providing or use of the city’s employees, personnel, equipment or
materials pursuant to this subchapter shall not be allowed or commenced
without: proper written application to the Mayor to allow the city’s use of its
employees, personnel, equipment or materials and a clear statement setting
forth the nature or the work to be performed and the duration of same; and the
Mayor’s confirmation and approval of the foregoing written request and his or
her approval thereof. Further, the Mayor in his or her discretion may decide
and elect not to allow the application and request unless such labor, work,
equipment or materials is required by statue or ordinance and been previously
approved and ordered by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 623-2001, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 38.16 CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   All non-city work agreed or permitted pursuant hereto shall be
supervised by personnel of the city.
   (B)   All property or equipment let or provided pursuant hereto shall be
used or operated by employees or personnel of the city only.
   (C)   All rates, costs, charges and expenses hereunder computed for labor
shall be portal to portal and include time necessary for loading, delivery,
setup, take-down, return to city facilities and replacement of equipment at the
end of the work day.
(Prior Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 623-2001, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 38.17 LABOR CHARGES.
   (A)   All labor costs and charges computed for the use of city employees and
personnel shall be in units and increments of not less than one quarter-hour.
   (B)   The rates, charges or costs for city employees and personnel is as
follows:
      (1)   Supervisor or supervisory-level personnel, $20 per hour;
      (2)   Nonsupervisory personnel or nonsupervisory-level personnel, $18 per
hour; and
      (3)   Inmates on supervised work-release, $10 for lunch.
(Prior Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 623-2001, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 38.18 EQUIPMENT CHARGES.
   Unless otherwise provided, the rates, charges and costs for providing or
using the city’s property, tools, equipment or materials shall be for a minimum
of four hours use and are as follows:
   (A)   Non-powered tools manual or hand, $12 per hour;
   (B)   Powered tools and equipment operated by hand or operator, $35 per
hour;
   (C)   Generators or compressors, $25 per hour;
   (D)   Loaders, $50 per hour;
   (E)   Trucks, $40 per hour;
   (F)   Salt-spreading/snow-removal equipment, $75 per hour; and
   (G)   Roadway barricades and street plates, $10 per day each with a minimum
of one day’s use eight hours.
(Prior Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 623-2001, passed 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Purpose and authority
   
39.002   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
39.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
39.017   Receipt of gifts
   
39.018   Honoraria
   
39.019   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
39.020   Representation of interest before city government
   
39.021   Misuse of confidential information
Financial Disclosure
   
39.035   Who must file
   
39.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
39.037   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
39.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
39.039   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
39.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
39.055   Nepotism
Enforcement
   
39.070   Board of Ethics created
   
39.071   Facilities and staff
   
39.072   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
39.073   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
39.074   Notice of hearings
   
39.075   Hearing procedure
   
39.076   Appeals
   
39.077   Limitation of actions
   
39.078   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for city officials, officers and employees shall
be clear, consistent and uniform in application, and to provide city officials,
officers and employees with advice and information concerning possible
conflicts of interest which might arise and are to be avoided in the conduct
and discharge of their public duties.
   (B)   The city is authorized and empowered under KRS Chapter 65 to establish
a code of ethics governing and concerning city officials, officers and
employees.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Board which is created and vested by this chapter with
the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any person, private employer, firm, corporation, partnership,
general partner, limited partner, joint venture, proprietorship, enterprise,
franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual, holding
company, joint stock company, receivership, trustee, fiduciary, trust,
professional service corporation or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Dry Ridge, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation or other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees
providing goods, materials or services to the city per contract, oral or
written, duly authorized, approved and ratified by record action official and
proper had by the City Council and the Mayor, or as may be allowed or permitted
by law or statute unto the Mayor alone.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild of a city
official, officer, employee or candidate.
   FILER. Any person required by this chapter to complete, execute and lodge
timely with the Board of Ethics such financial interest statement as
hereinafter provided.
   FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT. The document and report of financial/
pecuniary assets and interest upon the form adopted which must be periodically
made, executed, acknowledged and lodged for record with the Board of Ethics.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   The city’s Chief Maintenance Officer;
      (5)   The Chief of Police;
      (6)   The Chief of the Fire Department;
      (7)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (8)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
   RULE OF NECESSITY. That the city may make or enter into a contract with a
city officer or employee, or member of his or her immediate family, or with a
business association/entity in which such city officer or city employee or his,
her or their immediate family member has an economic or pecuniary interest in
the nature of the transaction and the nature of the interest is publicly
disclosed on the record prior to the time it is engaged in and a specific
finding by the city’s legislative body and entered within the official record
of the proceedings of the city’s legislative body that, notwithstanding the
conflict, it is in the best interests of the city because of limited supply,
price, similar factors or because of and due to a documented emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined
herein, as a member of any business, occupation, profession or other group, to
any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of the business, occupation, profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 38.10) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or through others, undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this division (A) shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing the contract performance
after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the
authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee
shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in
division (A)(3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons, including the finding of an emergency; and
      (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accord with any applicable
provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.11) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall, directly or
indirectly, through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence or could reasonably be expected to influence
the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.12) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.018 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city, actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article;
provided, that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing
evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or
city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 38.13) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.019 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 38.14) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.020 REPRESENTATION OF INTEREST BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 38.15) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.021 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if not subject to disclosure pursuant
to the State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870(1), at the time of its use or
disclosure, or if such information was acquired by an officer or employee
during an executive session of an official meeting of the city of any city
agency, or such information was disclosed to an officer or employee of the city
of any city agency at conference with the city’s attorney or other legal
counsel engaged by the city, City Council or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 38.16) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of city officers and employees, and city agencies, and
specifically enumerated city officer and employees, shall file an annual
statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Board of Zoning Adjustments;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter;
   (E)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
   (F)   The City Chief Maintenance Officer;
   (G)   The Chief of Police;
   (H)   The Chief of the Fire Department; and
   (I)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city who are authorized to
make purchase of materials or services involving total expenditures of more
than $300.
(Prior Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics no later than 3:00 p.m. on the second
Thursday of each year. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be
filed no later than 3:00 p.m. on the second Thursday of March in each
subsequent calendar year; provided, that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date of his or her appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee or required filer shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of
the material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 38.21) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The statement of financial interest shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer, employee or filer required to file the
statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than December 15 of
each calendar year. The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative
official, to deliver a copy of the form to any official, officer, employee or
filer shall not relieve the official, officer, employee or filer of the
obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing; provided, that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
official, officer or employee of the city or city agency, the Board shall cause
to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the candidate.
(Prior Code, § 38.23) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.039 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address and telephone number of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s position, office, office sought or
position of employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had, at any time
during the preceding calendar year, an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or a 5% ownership interest therein or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of this state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had, at any time during the preceding calendar year an
interest of $10,000 at fair market value, or a 5% ownership interest therein or
more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family
had, during the preceding calendar year, an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source, by name and address, of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more so received from any single source,
excluding gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any
member of the filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought and used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer,
employee or filer to disclose any specific dollar amounts, nor the names of
individual clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 38.24) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics or the designated administrative official, shall
notify, by certified mail, each person required to file a statement of
financial interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an
incomplete statement or files a statement on a form other than that prescribed
by the Board.
   (B)   The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 38.25) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
NEPOTISM
§ 39.055 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No relationship, by consanguinity or affinity of any degree, of a
person to any elected official, officer or employee of the city, shall prevent,
prohibit or be grounds alone to deny to any such person the right to make
written application for employment by the city.
   (B)   No relationship, by consanguinity or affinity of any degree, of a
person to any elected official, officer or employee of the city, shall prevent,
prohibit or be grounds alone to deny to any such person the right to be
considered for employment with the city and, thereafter, being employed by the
city; provided, that:
      (1)   Such person discloses on his or her written application for
employment, the name and position of the city official, officer or employee to
whom the applicant is related by blood or marriage and further discloses the
exact nature and degree of such relationship; and
      (2)   Such relationship, at an open, public and regular proceeding of the
city, is disclosed for public and official record by both the job applicant and
the city official, officer or employee to whom the applicant is related by
blood or marriage, and said city official, officer or employee, thereafter,
announces for the record official his or her potential conflict of interest,
disqualification as to any matters or procedures germane to employment with or
by the city, and so thereafter actually removes and withdraws his or her person
from the premises, close or room wherein proceedings are conducted or ongoing
and continues such disqualification and withdrawal and removal actual in the
event such proceedings concerning the related job applicant be continued to
another date and time.
   (C)   No official, officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall
advocate, recommend, cause, induce or influence the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member, immediate family member or any
other person to whom such official, officer or employee of the city or a city
agency is related to any degree by blood or marriage to an office or position
of employment with the city or a city agency.
   (D)   No official, officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall be
prohibited from supervising or managing the work, duties and activities of a
family member, immediate family member or other related person engaged or
employed by the city or a city agency.
   (E)   No official, officer or employee shall participate in any action
relating to the employment or discipline of a family member, immediate family
member or other related person, except that this prohibition shall not prevent
an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in the
development of a personnel plan, employee compensation plan or a budget which
includes compensation for a family member, immediate family member or other
related person; provided, that the family member, immediate family member or
other related person is included only as a member of a class of persons or a
group, and the family member, immediate family member or other related person
benefits to no greater extent than any other similarly situated member of the
class or group.
   (F)   The status, position or employment of a present employee of the city
or city agency alone, shall not be affected by having a family member,
immediate family member or any other person related in any degree by blood or
marriage to a present employee of the city or a city agency so elected or
appointed to a city office.
   (G)   Any prohibitions provided for in this section shall not apply to any
relationship or situation that would violate any such prohibitions, but which
existed prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38.30) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of City Council. The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years, except with respect to the members initially appointed, whose
term or terms, shall be as follows: one member shall be appointed for a term of
one year; and two members shall be appointed for a term of two years; and two
members shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three years. No more than three members
shall be of the same political party. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall
have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the
appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The
members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local governmental
affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of City Council, for misconduct, inability, disability or
willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed
from office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing before the Mayor and City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of City Council. If a vacancy is not filled by
the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics shall
fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation unless
otherwise approved by City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all necessary
and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board,
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 38.40) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.071 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by Council in the annual budget,
the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or by contract or
agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff needed for the
conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 38.41) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.072 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath, reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken, by deposition, before the designee of the Board, who has the power to
administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, the City Council, the governing body of any city agency, the County
Attorney or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to persons or any city personnel regarding
whether a given set of facts and circumstances would constitute a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall not be a power/duty of the Board of Ethics;
   (F)    To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officials, officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject
to its terms, by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties so
authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870(1);
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Council; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 38.42) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.073 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten days from the date of receipt. The
Board shall forward, within ten working days, to each official, officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint, a copy
of the complaint, a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the
applicable provisions of this chapter germane or covering the complaint or
alleged violation.
   (B)   (1)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board
of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint.
      (2)   The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint, an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel, to appear and
be heard, under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the State Attorney or County Attorney
evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued by either party.
   (D)   (1)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary
inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it
alleges a minimal, factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Board shall immediately
terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusions to writing and transmit a copy of
its decision to the complainant and to all officials, officers or employees
against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the official, officer or employee who is the subject of the
complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the official, officer or employee, lack of
economic loss to the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on
public confidence in city government issue, in writing, a confidential
reprimand to the official, officer or employee concerning the alleged violation
and provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the executive authority and
governing body of the city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an official, officer
or employee of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 38.43) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.074 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for, and the Board consents to, a later date.
The order setting the matter for hearing shall be sent, along with a copy of
any pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing and conduct of
hearings to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting
a hearing is issued.
(Prior Code, § 38.44) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.075 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics, however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator or his
or her counsel, shall so have the reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
counsel, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public unless the members
vote to go into executive session in accord with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the official, officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to
the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report, that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing, there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency of the violator;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence or information of criminal violations of this
chapter or state laws to the County Attorney or the State Attorney of the
jurisdiction for prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 38.45) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.076 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics, may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action of the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the circuit court against the Board. The Board
shall transmit to the clerk of the circuit court all evidence considered by the
Board at the public hearing and, if requested by the person perfecting an
appeal, a duplicate of the record of the public hearing as made
stenographically or by electromagnetic recordings, the cost of which being so
payable by the person perfecting the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 38.46) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.077 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year from
the date on which such violation occurred or within one year of the date when
such violation should have been discovered by due diligence by a reasonable and
prudent person cognizant of relevant and material facts and circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 38.47) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
§ 39.078 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No official, officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any
official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to
discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate
against any person, who in good faith, reports, discloses, divulges or
otherwise brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or
official of the city or the state any facts or information relative to an
actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action, if an officer or employee of the city or city agencies
discloses information which he or she knows:
       (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870(1); and
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 38.48) (Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any official, officer or employee of the city or any city agency who
is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine
imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any official, officer or employee of the city or any city agency who
is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter,
shall forfeit to the city an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which
the official, officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized
as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay
the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city, or by any other official so having the
power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer
or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with
all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 38.99)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file a statement or who fails
or refuses to remedy any deficiency as to the filing identified in the notice
under §
39.040 within the time period established in the notice, shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine as imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action, in the nature of debt, if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 38.25)
(Ord. 523-1994, passed 11-23-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
51.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   BILLING PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
Waste Collection Fee
   
50.01   Establishment of fee
   
50.02   Submission of fee on water bill
WASTE COLLECTION FEE
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE.
   The monthly charge for residential, solid waste collection and removal
services, commencing with the collection billing cycle beginning on July 1,
2023 and ending on June 30, 2024, shall be the amount of $12.60, and beginning
July 1, 2024 and ending on June 30, 2025, shall be the amount of $13.17, to be
billed to and paid by the residents and citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. 469-1991, passed 7-1-1991; Ord. 598-1999, passed
10-4-1999; Ord. 635-2003, passed 3-3-2003; Ord. 644-2003, passed 8-4-2003; Ord.
668-2005, passed 5-2-2005; Ord. 763-2011, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 839-2017,
passed 10-2-2017; Ord. 897-2023, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 50.02 SUBMISSION OF FEE ON WATER BILL.
   The waste collection fee will be billed on the water bill. Each residence,
residential unit and family unit within the city shall be billed separately.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) (Ord. 273, passed 1- -1974)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose; policy
   
51.002   Definitions and abbreviations
   
51.003   Destruction of POTW
   
51.004   Operations and maintenance manual
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
51.016   New buildings to be served by publicly-owned treatment works
   
51.017   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
51.018   Unauthorized tampering with publicly-owned treatment works; permit;
bond
   
51.019   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
51.020   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
51.021   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
51.022   Substances which interfere with publicly-owned treatment works
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.035   Public sewer not available
   
51.036   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.050   Permits
   
51.051   Prohibited connections
   
51.052   Design and installation
   
51.053   Inspection
   
51.054   Non-wastewater effluent into privately owned sewer lines
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
51.065   Restricted discharges
   
51.066   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
51.067   Grease, oil and sand interceptors and automatic flushing devices
   
51.068   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
51.069   Protection from accidental discharge
   
51.070   State requirements
   
51.071   City’s right of revision
   
51.072   Federal categorical pretreatment standards; modification procedure
Pretreatment Program Permit Administration
   
51.085   Permit to discharge wastes required
   
51.086   Wastewater contribution permits
   
51.087   Permit modifications
   
51.088   Permit conditions
   
51.089   Permit duration
   
51.090   Permit transfer
   
51.091   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
51.092   Monitoring facilities
   
51.093   Inspection and sampling
   
51.094   Pretreatment
   
51.095   Confidential information
User Charge
   
51.110   General conditions
   
51.111   Sewer rate schedule
Fees
   
51.125   Purpose
   
51.126   Charges and fees
Schedule of Charges
   
51.140   Connection fees or charges
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.155   Right to enter premises
   
51.156   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
51.157   Access to easements
   
51.158   Safety rules to be observed; liability for injuries
Violations; Remedies
   
51.170   Harmful contributions
   
51.171   Notice of violation
   
51.172   Continuing violation
   
51.173   Show cause hearing
   
51.174   Legal action
   
51.175   Revocation of permit
Wastewater Capacity Charges (WCC) and System Development Charges
   
51.190   Purpose
   
51.191   Definitions
   
51.192   Capacity fee
   
51.193   Wastewater facility construction costs
   
51.194   Project/geographical area
   
51.195   System development fee
   
51.196   Notification of fees/charges
   
51.197   Charges in addition to existing sewer tap-on fees
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Wastewater contribution permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system of the city
and enables the city in its operation of its wastewater collection and
treatment system to comply with all applicable laws of the state and of the
United States, particularly the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, and all
other similar laws and the regulations issued pursuant to these laws.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater collection and treatment system which will interfere with the
operation of the system or degrade or contaminate the resulting sludge and/or
discharges from the publicly-owned treatment works (POTW);
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater collection and treatment system which would or might be harmful to
the collection system or treatment plant or subject the POTW operator to
harmful effects;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater collection system which will pass through the system, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (4)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater collection and treatment system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater collection and treatment system
through the issuance of permits to certain non-domestic users and through
enforcement of general requirements for the other users of the system;
authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting and
provides for the setting of fees and charges for the equitable distribution of
costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to all persons within the
city and to all persons and municipalities outside the city who are, by
contract or agreement with the city, users of the municipally owned collection
and/or treatment works. Except as otherwise provided herein, the city, acting
through its Mayor and/or City Council and/or the Superintendent of the Sewer
Department, as appropriate, shall implement, administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the State Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
         (a)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be:
            1.   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
            2.   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership
or proprietorship, respectively; and/or
            3.   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
         (b)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
      AVAILABLE. A public sewer located at the property line or point at which
connection may be made with the city sanitary sewage collection facilities.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
      BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
51.050 through
51.053.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
      CITY. The City of Dry Ridge, its City Council; or the Sewer Department or
other entity having responsibility for the POTW.
      COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and stormwater
of surface water.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW’s NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designated to treat such
pollutants and, in fact, does treat such pollutants to the degree required by
the POTW’s NPDES/KPDES permit.
      COMPOSITE. An influent or effluent portion collected continuously over a
period of 24 hours at a rate proportional to the flow.
      COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of water
or wastewater taken at selected intervals, generally hourly for some specific
period, to minimize the effect of variability of the individual sample.
Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the flow at
the time of the sampling.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The term refers to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY defined
hereinabove; or the City Sewer Department if the city has an approved
pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Center of the Northern
Kentucky Health Department.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the Agency.
      EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
      FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 C.F.R. parts 307, 402, 403 and 405 and other
applicable regulations, as amended.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the proper
operation of the collection system.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
      GRAB. A single influent or effluent portion which is not composite sample
and collected at period(s) most representative of the total discharge.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS
as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
      INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes while
permitting normal sewage or liquid wastes or discharge into the sewer system or
drainage system by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly referred
to as a grease, oil or sand trap.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement
of the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1345) or any criteria, guideline or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to the Title IV
of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MANAGER. The person employed by the city as manager of the entire
municipal sewer system, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative. See also SUPERINTENDENT.
      MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration of a pollutant
based on the analytical results obtained from a 24-hour composite sample.
      MULTI-USE SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex, or where there is any combination of business and residence in the
same building or complex.
      NATIONAL (OR STATE) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the state under this authority and referred to as KPDES.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
      NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to
such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of
proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
      NONRESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of the city’s municipal sewer system that
is issued a water bill for nonresidential water consumption or usage, or who is
determined to be a nonresidential user of the city’s sewer system.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual operation and maintenance
expenses including replacement related directly to operating and maintaining
the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
      PERMITTEE. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or entity required
to have or to whom a wastewater contribution permit is issued.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of
solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
a significant user.
      PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the
authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city’s POTW.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in
the street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer
on private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
      SANITARY OR DOMESTIC WASTES. The liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial
waste.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
      SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
      SEWAGE SYSTEM or WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      SEWER DEPARTMENT. The City Sewer Department.
      SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of such works,
expansion and debt service.
      SIGNIFICANT USER. Any user of the city’s wastewater disposal system who:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
         (c)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to
§ 307 of the Act or state statutes and rules; or
         (d)   Is found by the city, state control agency or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions
generated by the system.
      SLUDGE DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routing nature, including, but
not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge, or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than
15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the city’s sewer treatment
facility.
      SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand (BOD))
released in a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause
interference with the operation of the treatment works or which exceed limits
set forth in the industry’s wastewater contribution permit and includes
accidental spills.
      SPECIFICATIONS. The city’s specifications for water and sewer system
design, construction and inspection, latest revision.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
      STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standards Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and
as set forth in the congressional record, 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative. Also see MANAGER.
      SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act or
other Acts.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
      USER CHARGE. The charge levied on all users, including, but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause
or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community.
      WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
51.086 of this chapter.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation system, drainage
system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings.
ADMI   American Dye Manufacturers Institute
ASTM   American Standard Testing Methods
AWWA   American Water Works Association
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CWA    Clean Water Act of 1979
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
KPDES  Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
WPCF   Water Pollution Control Federation
 
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 570-1998, passed
1-5-1998)
§ 51.003 DESTRUCTION OF POTW.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest and shall be charged with the appropriate
offense under the criminal statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 51.003) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL.
   For the calendar year of 2002, and all subsequent calendar years thereafter,
until so amended or replaced by a subsequent document of like import and tenor,
the city’s operations and maintenance manual for the city’s sanitary sewer
systems is adopted by reference and incorporated as though fully set out
herein.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) (Ord. 634-2003, passed 3-3-2003)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   All owners, tenants, occupants of dwelling houses, apartments,
apartment buildings, hotels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks,
trailer camps, manufacturing plants, commercial establishments or any other
building or structure or unit of any kind or nature used at any time for human
occupancy, or suitable for human occupancy, situated on any lot or lots or
parcel of land, through which any publicly-owned sewage collection line now or
hereafter is installed, or which abuts on any road, street, alley or easement,
in which there is now or is hereafter installed a publicly-owned sanitary
sewage collection line or to which property a publicly-owned sanitary sewage
line is now or hereafter extended shall at the owner’s or occupant’s sole
expense install suitable toilet and other facilities for the receiving of human
and domestic waste and other impure waters within 90 days after the sewage
collection line is placed in operation, or within 90 days of official notice to
do so, connect therewith all sanitary sewage drain pipes of the dwelling(s),
house(s), apartment(s), hotel(s), motel(s), mobile home(s), house trailer(s),
mobile home park(s), trailer camp(s), manufacturing or commercial
establishments or other building with the sanitary collection line conveying
thereby all the sewage and wastewater therefrom into the available sanitary
sewage collection treatment and disposal system. The connection shall be made
in accordance with all rules and regulations as the city may by ordinance
(including this chapter) from time to time establish, and the failure to make
the connection is hereby declared unlawful and a nuisance.
   (B)   Prior to occupancy or use of any building, structure or other facility
constructed, remodeled, added to or otherwise modified, located on premises to
which a public sewer is available and at such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property or premises served by a private wastewater disposal
system, and not previously served by a public sewer, a direct connection shall
be made to the public sewer system (after all necessary permits have been
applied for and obtained) in compliance with this chapter. Any septic tanks,
cesspools, privy pits and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall
be cleared of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Prior Code, § 51.015) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 NEW BUILDINGS TO BE SERVED BY PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS.
   (A)   No person shall commence the erection of any building or other
improvement, which is, or the components of which are, capable of emitting
liquid waste or sewage, on any lot or parcel of land abutting on any road,
street, alley or easement in which there is now or in which there may be
hereafter installed and maintained any sanitary sewage collection line; or any
lot or parcel of land through which there is now or there is hereafter
installed a sanitary sewage collection line or to which a sanitary sewage
collection line is available without first exhibiting to the City Council or
such official as it may designate, satisfactory evidence that a means has been
or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain pipes (building
drains and building sewer) from such building or other improvements with such
sanitary sewage collection line.
   (B)   No stormwater or other surface or subsurface water, drain or any
source of unpolluted water shall be connected with any sanitary sewage
collection line now or hereafter constructed, nor shall any stormwater,
surface, subsurface or unpolluted water be otherwise introduced into any such
sanitary sewage collection line.
(Prior Code, § 51.016) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain or use any pit privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility used or intended to be
used for the disposal of wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is
available as defined in §
51.015(A), except as provided for in §§
51.035 and
51.036.
   (B)   The existence within the city, wherever the services of the city
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are now
available, of open surface drainage of wastewater, pit privy, privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool, sewage lateral, earth pits, sanitary waste
vaults, sewage drainage fields, private sewage disposal systems or any other
facility or works for the disposition of the sanitary sewage wastes other than
the facilities of the city, is declared to be a menace to the public health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of the city and is
hereby determined and declared to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   The existence of facilities such as toilets, sinks, wash basins,
shower baths, bath tubs, kitchen sinks, any commercial or industrial machinery,
facility or device producing a liquid waste product and the like in or upon any
improved property or premises in this city where the facilities of the city’s
sanitary sewage collection treatment system are available, or may hereafter be
made available, is declared to be a menace to the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of this city and is determined
and declared to constitute a public nuisance, unless the facilities and/or
devices are connected to the city’s sanitary sewage collection and treatment
system.
   (D)   The city acting through its Mayor or the Superintendent of the Sewage
Department may prescribe the type and manner of connection to the sanitary
sewage collection and treatment system and may require that each connection be
supervised and inspected by an authorized agent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.017) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING WITH PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS; PERMIT;
BOND.
   (A)   No person, not previously authorized by the City Council, the Mayor or
an agent duly authorized by either of them, shall uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any publicly-owned sewer, manhole
or appurtenance of the city’s sanitary sewage collection and treatment system,
without first obtaining a written permit from the city or an agent of the city
duly authorized to issue the permit.
   (B)   Before a permit may be issued for excavating in any road, public
street, way, alley or easement in which a sanitary sewer is or may be laid, the
person applying for the permit shall have executed and delivered to the city a
surety bond, with good and sufficient surety approved by the City Clerk/
Treasurer in the penal sum of not less than $500, conditioned that he or she
will faithfully perform all the work, with due care and skill, and in
accordance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to
plumbing and to the collection treatment and disposal of wastewater.
   (C)   The bond shall state that the person and his or her surety will
indemnify and save harmless the city and the owner of the premises and the
adjoining premises against all damage, costs, expenses, outlays and claims of
every nature and kind arising out of any unskillfulness or negligence on his or
her part in connection with plumbing or excavating for plumbing or any
excavating as prescribed in this chapter. The bond shall remain in force and
effect for one year, except that on expiration it shall remain in force as to
all penalties, claims and demands that may have accrued prior to such
expiration.
(Prior Code, § 51.018) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on any public or private property within the city, in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, or into any sewer which connects to
the storm sewer system of the city any wastewater, sanitary or domestic waste
or industrial waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet, or on the surface of
the land or into any stream or body of water within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city any wastewater or industrial waste or other
polluted water except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. No provision of this chapter shall be
construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural outlet, or on the
surface of the land, or into any stream or body of water from the
responsibility of complying with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations applying to such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.019) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   No person shall discharge any wastewater, industrial waste or other polluted
waters, except in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any
more stringent state or federal standards, incorporated in state and federal
laws, including, but not limited to, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977, all amendments thereto and the regulations
issued pursuant to such statutes.
(Prior Code, § 51.020) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person or persons shall discharge, cause to be discharged or permit
to be discharged in any manner, including, but not limited to, leaks, defects
or connections, any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, any
stormwater, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface drainage or cooling water, to
any sanitary sewer, building sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The
Superintendent of the Sewer Department or his or her designated representative
shall have the right, at any reasonable time, to inspect the interior or
exterior of buildings or structures and adjacent lands and/or smoke test for
connections, leaks or defects to plumbing building drains or building sewers,
and to require the disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such water to
the building sewer. No sanitary drain, and no sump or sump pump intake or
discharge by manual or automatic switch over of intake or discharge connection
shall have a dual use for removal of water. In case both storm and sanitary
sewage is present, separate drainage or pumping shall be required.
   (B)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater and all other unpolluted water
or drainage may be discharged to storm sewers, approved by the city or its
designated agent. Unpolluted cooling water and/or unpolluted process water may
be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet only upon the prior written
approval of the city or its agent designated for the purpose of approval or
disapproval of such action.
   (C)   The owner of any plumbing building sewer or building drain having such
connections, leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal,
repair or correction of such sources.
(Prior Code, § 51.021) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE WITH PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS.
   No user shall contribute, cause to be contributed or permit to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant, wastewater or industrial
waste which will interfere with the operation of the POTW or endanger the life,
health or safety of any personnel engaged in operating and maintaining such
POTW or in the operation and maintaining of the sanitary sewage collection
systems. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the city sanitary
sewer collection system and the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to
national categorical pretreatment standards or any national, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall not contribute to the
sewage collection system or to the POTW any of the following substances:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause explosion or fire, or to be injurious in any way to the
collection system or treatment plant or to the operation of the collection
system or treatment plant, or to cause a threat to the life, health or safety
of the personnel engaged in the operation and maintenance of the collection
system or treatment plant. At no time shall such substances be of sufficient
volume or strength to cause two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter at the point of discharge into the system (or at any other point) to be
more than 5%, nor any single reading to be more than 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzine, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and any other substance which the city, state or federal government or
any agencies thereof have notified the user is an explosion hazard, fire hazard
or a hazard to the system;
   (B)   Any wastewater or industrial waste containing toxic pollutants in
sufficient quantity, either alone or by interaction or reaction with other
pollutants, to injure or interfere with the wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to life, health or safety of humans or animal and/or to
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to exceed the
limitations set forth in the categorical pretreatment standard in effect at the
time of discharge. A toxic pollutant shall include, but shall not be limited
to, any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act as amended;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes, wastewaters or industrial wastes having a pH of
less than 6.0 or more than 9.0 or having any other corrosive properties capable
of causing damage or hazard or injury to the sewage collection system or
structures, equipment or personnel of the POTW;
   (D)   Any slug or load of pollutants, including, but not limited to, oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like) released at a flow or concentration
that will cause interference with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Any solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size to be
capable of causing obstructions to the flow in sewers, or to interfere with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities including the collections system
and the POTW, such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, wood shavings, metal shavings, metal, metal grindings, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair, fleshings,
entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, either whole or ground, spent
lime, stone or marble dust, grass clippings, spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, gas, asphalt residues, unground garbage, residues from refining or
processing fuel or lubricating oils, or glass or metal grinding or polishing
wastes;
   (F)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not readily removable in the
POTW, but in no case wastewater with a color at the introduction into the
collection system that exceeds 300 ADMI units;
   (G)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in POTW (treatment plant) resulting in interference with the treatment
process, and in no case with a temperature at the point of introduction into
the collection system of a temperature exceeding 150°F (65°C);
   (H)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which, either
individually or by interaction or reaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a nuisance or are hazardous to life, health or safety, or sufficient to
prevent or restrict entry into the sewers or appurtenances for their
maintenance or repair;
   (I)   Any substance which will or may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as sludges, residues or scum to be unsuitable for
reclamation or reuse, or to substantially interfere with any reclamation
process. In no case shall any substance be discharged into the sewage
collection system to cause the POTW or any discharge or products from it to be
in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed under or pursuant to § 405 of the Act; any criteria,
guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Toxic Substance Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria applicable to the sludge management
method(s) being used by the city at the time of the discharge;
   (J)   Any substance which will cause the city or its POTW to violate its
NPDES/KPDES or its sludge disposal system permit or to violate the receiving
water quality standards fixed by any state or federal agency having
jurisdiction over such matters;
   (K)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes having a
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations;
   (L)   Any wastewater containing concentrations of acids, iron pickling
wastes or plating solutions of such strength and concentration as to be
injurious to the POTW or any discharge or sludge therefrom; or
   (M)   Any wastewater which constitutes or causes a hazard to human life,
health or safety or which is or causes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.022) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
51.015 through
51.022, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public building sewer
connection is available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying
fully with all applicable local and state laws and regulations.
   (B)   The owner of the premises shall maintain and operate the private
sewage and disposal facilities at all times, in a sanitary manner, at no
expense to the city. When it becomes necessary, the sludge may be removed and
disposed of only in a manner approved by the city in accordance with applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations by operators licensed by the
city. It shall be a condition of the license that the licensee shall maintain
at all times a complete record, subject to inspection by officers and
representatives of the city of the date, time and place of each removal of and
disposition of such sludge.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with or lessen any requirement that may be imposed by applicable
state or local laws or regulations.
   (D)   Industries and others with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge
at permitted discharge points provided they are in compliance with all
conditions of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.035) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local and state laws and regulations, Before
commencement of the construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall first obtain a written permit issued by the City Codes Enforcement
Officer, after approval of the system by state and local authorities as
required. The application shall be made on a form furnished by the Codes
Enforcement Officer which the applicant shall supplement by any additional
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Codes
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation has been completed to the satisfaction of the
Codes Enforcement Officer and all other required state or local officers. They
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Codes Enforcement Officer
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of receipt of notice
by the Codes Enforcement Officer, Saturday, Sunday and holidays excepted.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the absorption area of
the lot is less than 21,750 square feet.
   (D)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 51.036) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.050 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes or types of building sewer permits
required: one for residential use, and one for service to commercial and
industrial establishments. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a form furnished by the city. Applications for service to
commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish detailed
information about all waste-producing activities and all wastewater
characteristics, constituents and anticipated quantities. The permit
application shall be supplemented by appropriate plans, specifications,
materials to be used and any other information reasonably required by the Codes
Enforcement Officer. Details and information required to obtain an industrial
or commercial permit include, but are not limited to, the requirements set out
in this chapter. All permits and inspection fees as set out in §
51.140 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   All users having a building sewer permit for an industrial or
commercial facility shall notify the Codes Enforcement Officer and the
Superintendent of the Sewer Department at the time of any transfer of the
property by conveyance, deed, lease or otherwise and at the time any new
introduction of increased or different wastewater constituents or any proposed
substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents
being or to be introduced into the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 51.045) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make any connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building drain or building sewer,
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
Any such connection which exists on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days following the effective
date of this chapter. The owner of any building drains or building sewers
having such connections, leaks or defects shall bear any and all costs incident
to the removal of the source. Pipes, sumps, sump pumps and similar plumbing and
equipment for relief from sources of surface water and groundwater shall be
completely separated from wastewater facilities. Removal of water or the
sources thereof without the presence of separate facilities for the removal of
wastewater shall be evidenced by drainage of the waters to the public sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   No crawl space drains which are lower than ground surfaces surrounding
the building shall be connected to the building sewer. No sanitary inlet which
is lower than six inches above the top of the lowest of the two adjacent public
sanitary sewer manholes shall be connected by direct drainage to the building
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.046) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
and every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed through
an adjacent alley, court yard, driveway or easement provided by the city, the
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer; but neither the city nor its Sewer
Department assumes any obligation or responsibility for any damage, loss or
expense resulting from such single connection.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent of the Sewer
Department or his or her designated agent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter and all other ordinances, laws and regulations regulating such matters.
Permit and inspection fees and tap-on fees for new buildings using existing
building sewer shall be the same as for new building sewers. If additional
sewer consumers or additional facilities are added to the old building sewers,
additional sewer tap-on fees and inspection fees shall be charged accordingly,
even though no new sewer tap is actually made into the city POTW.
   (C)   The extension of user service lines from any point on the user side of
the tap for delivery into a wastewater from any location other than that of the
user in whose name the tap is registered is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   Each building sewer shall be constructed of either: cast iron soil
pipe ASTM A-74, latest revision; PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe ASTM d-
3034, latest revision; ductile iron pipe, cement lined AWWA specification C-151
latest revision; and shall meet all requirements of all state and local
plumbing codes at the time of installation. The size, slope alignment,
materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements in effect at the time of the work of the
local and state building and plumbing codes and all other applicable
regulations of the city. In the absence of local code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedure set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, latest revision
shall apply.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and construction
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the city for any loss, expense or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be
occasioned to the city by the installation of the building sewer. The owner
shall pay to the city a tap-on fee at the time of the application for a tap-on
permit as provided in §
51.140.
   (F)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation are, at all times, adequately guarded with barricades and lights
so as to protect the public and all persons from hazard or danger. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and all other public property disturbed shall be restored
in a manner approved by the City Codes Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above the
basement floor or in a separate water-tight sump and shall be so designed,
constructed and maintained as to exclude all surface or subsurface waters.
   (H)   No person working on any building drain or the city POTW with a
cleaning rod shall use a rod not previously approved by the Superintendent of
the Sewer Department in cleaning any connections to the POTW sewer.
   (I)   All excavations required for the installation of building sewers shall
be by open trench unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent of the Sewer
Department and the Codes Enforcement Officer, and all trenches shall be kept
open until the pipe and all associated work has been inspected, tested and
approved by the Codes Enforcement Officer. Except where the use of bends is
approved and bends are supplied, trenches shall be straight in both directions
and graded to accommodate prefabricated joints. Trenches shall be no less than
20 inches in width at right angles to the centerline of the pipe. Building
sanitary sewers laid in undisturbed ground must be laid on at least six inches
of pea gravel, sand or other approved grillage to support the pipe. The trench
shall be filled with the same approved grillage on each side of the pipe and
six inches over the pipe. Building sewers laid in disturbed earth, fill dirt or
mud shall be embedded to the lower quadrant with at least a four-inch concrete
pad below the invert or with such other support as may be necessary in
accordance with good engineering practices. Backfill shall be carefully tamped
in and around the pipe in not over four-inch layers to the top of the pipe to
provide proper support. Backfill shall be hand-placed in layers of not more
than four inches for 18 inches above the pipe. No backfill shall be placed over
the pipe until the pipe-laying has been inspected and tested by the Codes
Enforcement Officer or his or her duly-authorized representative.
   (J)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
All joints and connections shall be made in full compliance with the
manufacturer’s recommendation and in accordance with ASTM standards for the
material used as provided by the current revision in effect at the time the
work is done.
   (K)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. If no properly-located sewer service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the City Sewer Department shall cut a neat
hole into the main line of the public sewer, and a suitable wye or tee saddle
shall be installed to receive the building sewer. The invert of the building
sewer at the point of connection with such saddle shall be in the upper
quadrant of the mainline of the public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection not
extending past the inner surface of the public sewer shall be made, and the
saddle shall be made secure, water-tight and gas-tight by encasement in epoxy
cement specially prepared for this purpose. A wye and H-bend fitting shall be
made at the easement line or property line between the public sewer and the
building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a clean-out and for
applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After testing a cast
iron or ductile iron riser shall be inserted into this fitting, properly sealed
to make the joint water-tight and brought flush with the surface of the ground.
A stopper or plug outfitted with a type of joint appropriate for the pipe used
shall be affixed to seal the riser against the intrusion of groundwater or
surface water.
   (L)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed to meet or exceed
the then-current standards of the State Plumbing Code, latest revision.
(Prior Code, § 51.047) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 INSPECTION.
   The applicant(s) for a building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
of the Sewer Department and the Codes Enforcement Officer when the building
sewer is ready for inspection, testing and connection to the public sewer. The
connection, testing and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent of the Sewer Department and the Codes Enforcement Officer or the
authorized representatives of each of them. All connections shall be made gas-
tight and water-tight and verified by proper testing.
(Prior Code, § 51.048) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999 
§ 51.054 NON-WASTEWATER EFFLUENT INTO PRIVATELY OWNED SEWER LINES.
   (A)   No user/customer of the city’s sewer collector system, whether
residential or nonresidential, shall, as to any sewerage line or main owned or
maintained by such user/customer, cause or allow any manner of runoff,
groundwater, non-wastewater or non-wastewater effluent to be discharged or
introduced into such sewerage line or main; or by action, inaction or neglect,
allow runoff, groundwater, non-wastewater or non-wastewater effluent, by
infiltration, leakage or otherwise, to enter such sewerage line or main; or
allow any such act or event of non-wastewater infiltration or introduction into
sewerage lines or mains heretofore enumerated to continue or be ongoing.
   (B)   The city, its agents and assigns shall be allowed, permitted and have
the right to test by all manner and means recognized and investigate and
inspect the property and premises of the city and the property and premises,
close, curtilage, improvements, accessions, structures, buildings, piping,
water lines and sewerage lines and mains of, and/or connecting to the city’s
municipal water system or the city’s sanitary sewerage collector system owned
by the city itself or the city’s user/customer concerning acts, events and
incidents of non-wastewater infiltration herein referred to and prohibited
hereby and hereunder.
   (C)   Should any act, event, incident, occurrence or the existence of a
prohibited non-wastewater infiltration be discovered, then the city shall
notify the offending property owner-user in writing by both regular and
certified U.S. mail of such condition and provide particulars and assistance
upon the property owner’s request in determining the location of the problem
area.
   (D)   Offending property owners must effect all repairs and work necessary
to correct or cure the cited act of prohibited infiltration to the city’s
complete satisfaction within 90 days of the date the city’s notice letter
referred to in division (C) above.
   (E)   All work and matters necessary to make repairs and effect a cure of
the prohibited act of infiltration, including any work done causing injury or
damages to the city’s property shall be done at the property owner’s cost and
expense alone without contribution from the city.
   (F)   Should the repairs and cure required above be not made or had to the
satisfaction of the city within the allowed period of 90 days, then in that
event, the city shall immediately terminate the property owner’s water and
sewer services requiring the offending property owner-user to incur and pay a
reconnect fee special and separate from a nonpayment disconnect in the sum and
amount of $50 each for water service and sewerage service.
(Prior Code, § 51.049) (Ord. 735-2008, passed 10-20-2008) Penalty, see §
51.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 51.065 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall
be limited in discharges to the city sanitary sewage collection and treatment
system to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
the wastewater treatment plant or the wastewater treatment process or
equipment; or will not have an adverse effect on the waters of the receiving
stream or the aquatic life therein; or will not at any point in the collection
or treatment process or after discharge have an adverse effect on the life,
health or safety of humans or animals; or have an adverse effect on the sludge
discharges of the treatment plant or constitute a public nuisance. The
Superintendent of the City Sewer Department and/or the City Council may set
additional and/or more stringent limits than those set forth in this chapter,
if, in his, her or their opinion, additional or more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above stated objectives. In forming his, her or their
opinion as to the acceptability of material, waters, substances or wastes, he,
she or they shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of the
subject material, substances, waters or wastes in relation to the flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, materials employed in the construction of the wastewater treatment
plant, the terms of NPDES/KPDES permit for the wastewater treatment plant and
other pertinent factors.
   (B)   No person shall discharge into the public sewers of the city any
material, waters, substances or wastes containing any matter prohibited by the
standards set forth herein or hereafter established or in excess of the limits
set forth herein or hereafter provided, without the written approval of the
Superintendent of the Sewer Department:
      (1)   Wastewater or wastes, including industrial and commercial
wastewaters, containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil,
non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
      (2)   Wastewater from industrial plants or commercial businesses
containing floatable oils, fat or grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 milligrams per liter or containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures 32° through 150°F (0° through 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths HP or
greater shall be subject to review and approval by the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits established by §
51.022(H) or which may hereafter be established as provided in division (A)
above;
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established as provided by the City Council
or the Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (6)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures, equipment and treatment processes;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing cadmium, chromium, copper, cyanide,
iron, lead, nickel, zinc or similar objectionable or toxic substances to such
degree that they inhibit or damage the wastewater treatment processes, or tend
to concentrate in the wastewater sludge to a level that prevents the use of
acceptable sludge disposal methods, or pass through the treatment process
unremoved and at such concentration as to cause a violation of effluent
limitations or water quality standards which are or may be established by state
and federal agencies having jurisdiction;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment plant processes employed or
are amenable to treatment only to degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (9)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative,
which exceed the following normal maximum wastewater parameter concentrations.
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       200 mg/l
NH3N      30 mg/l
TSS       200 mg/l
 
      (10)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of
any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter                    Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic, total               0.05
Barium, total                6
Beryllium, total             0.5
Boron, total                 1
Cadmium, total               0.02
Chloride, total              250
Chromium, hexavalent         0.2
Chromium, total              0.5
COD                          750
Color                        300 ADMI units
Copper, total                0.2
Cyanide, amenable            0.02
Cyanide, total               0.04
Dissolved solids, total      1,500
Fluoride                     2
Iron, total                  8.75
Lead, total                  0.13
Magnesium, total             14
Manganese, total             1.43
Mercury, total               0.008
Nickel, total                1.06
Oil and grease, hydrocarbons 25
Oil and grease, total        150
Ph                           6 - 9
Phenols                      0.5
PCB                          0
Selenium, total              0.02
Silver, total                0.05
Sulfate, total               250
Sulfide                      5
Total toxic organics         2.13
Zinc, total                  1.35
 
(Prior Code, § 51.060) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall at any time or in any manner increase use of process water or
in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute
for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in
the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant
specific limitation developed by the city or state.
(Prior Code, § 51.061) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS AND AUTOMATIC FLUSHING DEVICES.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be required and provided by
the owner(s) when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid waste containing floatable grease in excess
amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the
owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal, by
appropriate means, of the captured material and shall maintain records of the
dates and means of disposal. The Superintendent may require reporting of such
information for his or her review. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by the owners’ personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms. Required interceptors shall also comply with all
applicable regulations of the County Health Department.
   (B)   The property, premises, structures, buildings and facilities of all
nonresidential user/customers of the city’s sewerage and sewer system shall
have therein and thereupon and be equipped with automatic flushing toilets,
commodes, urinals and bidets. Further, as to existing nonresidential user/
customer property, premises, structures, buildings or facilities not now having
therein or thereupon such automatic flushing toilets, commodes, urinals or
bidets, the same upon repair or scheduled replacement shall have all such non-
flushing devices replaced with automatic flushing devices for the collection
and disposal of waste.
(Prior Code, § 51.062) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 636-2003, passed
4-7-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly-owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in
violation of this chapter and is prohibited.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or are
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be continuously maintained in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her sole expense.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and who wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system of the city shall first obtain
permission for such discharge from the Superintendent. All persons receiving
such permission shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter and
any other special provisions that may be established by the Superintendent as
necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system or
POTW.
      (1)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the Superintendent for such purposes.
      (2)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by §
51.111, and payment of such fees shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer
prior to such discharge.
      (3)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system shall be subject to immediate revocation of discharge privileges (if
granted) and further subject to the penalties prescribed in §
51.999.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with the County Health Department, state or
federal regulations.
   (D)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment provided that applicable, local,
state and federal pretreatment regulations or the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit are
not violated.
(Prior Code, § 51.063) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Required. Each significant user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the city and the Superintendent for
review and shall be approved by the city before construction of the facility.
All existing users shall complete such a plan within 90 days after the
effective date of this chapter. Construction shall be completed within 120 days
of approval of plans and notification by the Superintendent. No user who
commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge procedure and equipment have been approved by the city and necessary
equipment has been installed. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the
case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately (within five minutes of discovery) telephone and notify the POTW of
the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following any accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge, detailed description of character and
amount of discharge and the measures taken and to be taken by the user to
prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees of the person
and number to call in the event of an accident or dangerous discharge.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer or permit
such accident or dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 51.064) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, § see
51.999
§ 51.070 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.065) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.071 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right, at the recommendation of the Superintendent, or
engineers employed by the city, to establish, by majority vote of its Council
members present at a regular or special meeting, more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.066) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.072 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS; MODIFICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede
the limitations imposed under this chapter. The Superintendent shall notify all
affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. §
403.12.
   (B)   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   When the city’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the city may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
federal pretreatment standards.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean
reduction in the amount of the pollutant or alteration of the nature of the
pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state
in the effluent, which is achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken
when measured according to the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403(7)(c)
(2), General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution
promulgated pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   The city may modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. § 403(7) are
fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 51.067) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM PERMIT ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.085 PERMIT TO DISCHARGE WASTES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a city permit to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, and/
or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by a NPDES/KPDES permit or
by the Superintendent in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.080) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Significant users.
      (1)   Permit requirements. All significant users now connected or
proposing to connect to, or now contributing or proposing to contribute to, the
POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit before connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users presently connected to
or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit
within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater
contribution permit shall complete and file with the city an application in the
form prescribed by the city and accompanied by a permit fee. Existing users
shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply for a
wastewater contribution permit at least 90 days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit,
in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location, if different from the address;
         (b)   SIC numbers according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended; or if a new
user not engaged in similar activities elsewhere an estimate of such
constituents and characteristics based upon similar processing by other firms;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variation, if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being or will be met a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment
standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date of this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city;
            2.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates of the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards; and
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (m)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document or policy; and
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (3)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the date furnished by the user
and may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the
data furnished, the city may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to
terms and conditions provided herein.
   (B)   Nonresidential users.
      (1)   Permit required. No nonresidential user of the city’s municipal
sewer system shall use or discharge any manner of wastewater or effluent into
the sewer system until such nonresidential user has been issued a wastewater
contribution permit.
      (2)   Permit application.
         (a)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall provide the application for
issuance of a wastewater contribution permit forms for use by the
nonresidential user applicant.
         (b)   All current nonresidential users of the city’s municipal sewer
system shall, in the month of January of each calendar year, make and complete
an application for the issuance of a wastewater contribution permit.
         (c)   All future nonresidential users of the city’s municipal sewer
system shall, in the calendar month the nonresidential user begins to use the
sewer system, make and complete an application for the issuance of a wastewater
contribution permit.
         (d)   All wastewater contribution permits shall be issued for a term
of one calendar year beginning on January 1, and through and ending on of
December 31 of such calendar year, or shorter term, if the permit is issued
other than in the month of January of a calendar year.
      (3)   General requirements.
         (a)   Nonresidential user’s records relating to water consumption and
to wastewater discharges shall be maintained and retained by the nonresidential
user for a minimum of three years and shall be made available to the city for
review and inspection, on request, at any time during such three-year period.
         (b)   A permittee shall notify the city in writing of the introduction
of any new wastewater constituents or any changes in the volume or character of
wastewater constituents being introduced into the city’s sewer system, at least
30 days prior to commencement of any such discharge.
         (c)   A permittee shall immediately notify the city of any slug
discharges into the city’s sewer system.
         (d)   Certain effluent discharge constituents may require pretreatment
by the user/permittee, which pretreatment schedule, the permittee must complete
and continue in order to continue its wastewater contribution permit.
      (4)   Inspections, monitoring and right of entry.
         (a)   The city shall be provided access and entry to a permittee’s
premises and facilities for purposes of inspections and actions related to the
operation and maintenance of the city’s sewer system at all reasonable times
and immediately in cases of emergency.
         (b)   The city shall have access to and shall have the right to copy
any of the permittee’s records required to be maintained by the permittee as a
term and condition of its wastewater contribution permit.
         (c)   The city shall have the right of entry and access to a
permittee’s premises and facilities to inspect any monitoring equipment or
monitoring methods required under its wastewater contribution permit and to
split samples or sample and discharge of effluents or constituents thereof
discharged into the city’s sewer system.
      (5)   Excessive strength surcharge.
         (a)   In the event that a user/permittee discharges wastes into the
city’s sewer system having an average BOD content in excess to 200 mg/l, or an
average suspended solids content in excess of 200 mg/l, or an average of
ammonia-nitrogen content in excess of 30 mg/l, then, in such event, the user/
permittee shall pay a surcharge based upon the excess strength of said user’s/
permittee’s wastes as follows.
 
Ammonia-nitrogen $1.70 per pound
BOD              $0.40 per pound
Suspended solids $0.60 per pound
 
         (b)   The costs of treatment for each pound of BOD, suspended solids
and ammonia-nitrogen removed shall be reviewed at the time of and in
conjunction with the user charge. Surcharge rates shall be reviewed where
necessary to approximate current treatment costs.
      (6)   Revocation of permit. Revocation of the nonresidential user’s
wastewater contribution permit will be issued for any of the following:
         (a)   Permittee’s violation of any requirement, term or condition of
its issued wastewater contribution permit;
         (b)   Permittee’s violation or noncompliance with any applicable or
controlling federal, state or local regulation or rule;
         (c)   Permittee’s failure to factually report wastewater constituents
or characteristics of user discharge or treatment;
         (d)   Permittee’s failure to report significant changes in its
operations or wastewater constituents or characteristics;
         (e)   Permittee’s failure to afford reasonable access or entry to its
premises or facilities for purposes of inspections or monitoring; or
         (f)   Permittee’s failure to report the discharge of slug into the
city’s sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 51.081) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 570-1998, passed
1-5-1998; Ord. 625-2002, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 51.087 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of national categorical pretreatment
standards, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to the standards
shall be revised to require compliance with the standards within the time frame
prescribed by the standards. Where a user, subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards, has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater contribution permit as required, the user shall apply for the
wastewater contribution permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user
with an existing wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the
Superintendent within 90 days after the promulgation of an applicable federal
categorical pretreatment standard the information required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.082) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.088 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a POTW sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for test and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports
(see § 51.091);
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining for a minimum of three
years plant records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city,
and affording city access thereto;
   (I)   Requirements for notification to the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the permit; and
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.083) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed three
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be issued to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms
and conditions of the permit shall be subject to modification by the city
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in
§§
51.065 through
51.072 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 51.084) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.090 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be assigned, transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the prior approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user
shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.085) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance data reporting. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
user, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
of these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule is necessary
to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the user.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new user, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent
during the months of June and December unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the wastewater contribution permit, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles and the like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users where their
imposition is appropriate. In such cases, the report required in division (A)
above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards
in the effluent of the user. These reports shall contain the results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the Superintendent, of
all pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable
pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the
applicable pretreatment standard. All analyses shall be performed by a
laboratory acceptable to the city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance
with procedures established by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g)
of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, and amendments thereto, or with
any other test procedures established by the EPA Administrator. Sampling shall
be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the EPA
Administrator.
      (3)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the EPA Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 51.086) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate at the
user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and
flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage system. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public right-of-way. The
Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans and specifications
for such monitoring facilities and may require them to be constructed to
provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial waste and
sanitary sewage flows.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near a sampling manhole or facility to
allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
(Prior Code, § 51.087) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   Inspection. The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being met. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, record examination or in the performance of any of
his or her duties.
   (B)   Sampling.
      (1)   The city, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set
upon the user’s property any devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
      (2)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into his or her premises, the
user shall make necessary arrangements for his or her security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city, approval
authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 51.088) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review
and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The
review of such plan and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of
the changes.
   (B)   The city is required by federal regulation to keep the public informed
of all cases of significant violation. To accomplish this the city shall
annually publish in a newspaper of local circulation a list of the users which
were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or standards at least
once during the 12 previous months. A significant violation shall meet one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority;
      (2)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is given;
or
      (3)   Involves failure to report accurately.
   (C)   The notification shall also summarize any enforcement action taken
against the user during the same 12 months.
   (D)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request.
(Prior Code, § 51.089) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restrictions
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/
KPDES permit, sludge disposal system permit or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the city as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Prior Code, § 51.090) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999 
USER CHARGE
§ 51.110 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect the costs of operation and maintenance
(including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay his, her or its proportionate share of operation
and maintenance (including replacement costs based on volume of flow).
   (C)   The city shall review, not less often than annually, the user charge
system. The user charge shall be revised as necessary to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users as provided herein; and
      (2)   Generate at least sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the sewage works.
   (D)   All flow to the sewage works not directly attributable to users (such
as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among all users of the sewage
works based upon the volume of flow of the users.
   (E)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and the portion of the user charge which is
attributable to operation and maintenance of the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 51.100) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.111 SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Method of billing surcharge.
      (1)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on the following
formula, with the total applied to the monthly bill of effected users: A(D-
200)+B(E-005)+C(F-30) .006238 X G = Surcharge Payment ($/Mo); where formula
components are as follows:
         (a)   Surcharge rate for BOD, in dollars per pound;
         (b)   Surcharge rate for SS, in dollars per pound;
         (c)   Surcharge rate for NH3-N1 in dollars per pound;
         (d)   User’s average BOD concentration, in mg/l;
         (e)   User’s average SS concentration, in mg/l;
         (f)   User’s average NH3-N concentration, in mg/l; and
         (g)   User’s monthly flow to sewage works, in 1,000 gal.
      (2)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 200 mg/l of BOD, 200 mg/l of SS or 30 mg/l of NH3-N.
   (B)   Minimum sewer rates and charges.
      (1)   The minimum monthly bill for sewer services, including surcharge,
to residential customers shall be $45.47, and each customer shall be entitled,
in each month, to discharge wastewater into the municipal sewer system based
upon water usage of 2,000 gallons, or less.
      (2)   The minimum monthly bill for sewer services, including surcharge,
to nonresidential customers shall be $64.75, and each such customer shall be
entitled, in each month, to discharge wastewater into the municipal sewer
system based upon water usage of 2,000 gallons, or less.
      (3)   Thereafter, each customer, residential or nonresidential, shall be
billed at the rate of $16.19 for each 1,000-gallon increment of wastewater
effluent (water) next consumed or discharged, as the case may be, into the
municipal sewer system in excess of the forgoing 2,000-gallon monthly minimum
usage/discharge limit, shall be charged and exacted and be so computed and
customer billed under a charge of $1.47 for each 100-gallon increment, or
fraction thereof used, or meter-measured, or estimated, as the case may be, all
to be exacted and charged for the billing due date of October 15, 2023.
(Prior Code, § 51.101) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 757-2011, passed
1-3-2011; Ord. 849-2018, passed 8-20-2018; Ord. 903-2023, passed 9-19-2023)
FEES
§ 51.125 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation and conduct of the program established herein. The
applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges
and fees.
(Prior Code, § 51.110) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.126 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards; and
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this subchapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city, including the charges
and surcharges set out in §§
51.110 and
51.111.
(Prior Code, § 51.111) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
SCHEDULE OF CHARGES
§ 51.140 CONNECTION FEES OR CHARGES.
   (A)   All costs or expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer to the POTW shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the construction and installation of the building sewer. At the
time of submitting an application for a building sewer connection permit, the
owner shall pay to the city a permit and inspection fee as follows:
      (1)   Residential or commercial buildings: $25; and
      (2)   Industrial establishments: $50.
   (B)   The following connection fees shall be charged for all connections
made to the sanitary sewer system within the city and it shall be the duty of
the city to collect said fees.
      (1)   Commercial establishments. The connection fee for each commercial
establishment shall be $2,250.
      (2)   Industrial establishments. The connection fee for each industrial
establishment shall be $4,250.
      (3)   Residential establishments. The connection fee for residential
establishments shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, duplexes and two-
unit apartment structures: $1,000;
         (b)   Apartment buildings having three to eight units: $2,500 per
building;
         (c)   Apartment buildings having nine to 16 units: $2,750 per
building; and
         (d)   Apartment buildings having 17 or more units: $450 per unit.
      (4)   Transient commercial/government residential-type uses and
facilities for such uses. The connection fee for such use-type or facility
shall be $1,250 for each such facility plus $350 per each room made available
for occupancy/use by customers or expected users of a hotel, motel or term-
occupancy, or patients of a hospital, nursing home or extended care facility or
daycare facility, or each room to be used as a classroom or restroom in an
educational building or educational facility.
      (5)   Multi-use buildings and facilities. Where a building or facility
has more than one permitted use, the greater or greatest fee or charge herein
and hereunder for such permitted use shall be charged, exacted or levied for
the sewer line connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.120) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 573-1998, passed
2-2-1998; Ord. 600-1999, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 666-2005, passed 4-11-2005)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.155 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, other duly-authorized employees and representatives of
the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.130) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.156 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly-authorized employees and representatives of the city and authorized
representatives of federal and state regulatory agencies are authorized to
obtain information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial
wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Prior Code, § 51.131) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.157 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly-authorized employees and representatives of the city and authorized
representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly-negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on this easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly-negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.132) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.158 SAFETY RULES TO BE OBSERVED; LIABILITY FOR INJURIES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.155, the Superintendent and duly-authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees
and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain safety conditions as required in §
51.091.
(Prior Code, § 51.133) (Ord. 408-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES
§ 51.170 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service or wastewater
contribution permit of a user when suspension is necessary, in the opinion of
the city, to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, or may cause interference to the POTW or the
city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of his or her wastewater treatment
service or wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary,
including, but not limited to, immediate severance of the sewer connection,
immediate termination of water service to the user to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system, or endangerment to individuals or the environment.
The city shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit or the wastewater
treatment service (and water service, if terminated) to such user upon proof of
the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the city
within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 51.145) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.171 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.146) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.172 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Any person who continues any violation of any provision of this chapter
beyond the time limit provided in the notice described in §
51.171 shall be charged with a violation of this chapter and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in accordance with §
51.999. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the foregoing criminal penalties, the city
shall recover of any user violating any provisions of this chapter all costs,
expenses and damages, including, but not limited to, any penalties which may be
assessed to the city for violation of its NPDES/KPDES permit occasioned by such
user’s violation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporter’s
fees and all other litigation expenses, by appropriate suit at law or equity
against the person found to have violated this chapter or the notices, orders,
rules, regulations or permits issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.147) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.173 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The city may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to show cause, before the city, why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time
and place of a hearing to be held by the city regarding the violation, the
reason why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action and
directing the user to show cause before the city why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
   (B)   The city may itself conduct the hearing, issue notices and subpoenas,
take the evidence or may designate a representative as a hearing officer to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the city notices of hearings and subpoenas
directing the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations, to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken shall be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued until full
compliance has been achieved.
(Prior Code, § 51.148) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.174 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial, wastes or other wastes into the
city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate legal or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 51.149) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.175 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.150) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGES (WCC) AND SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 51.190 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
exact and collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the
city’s wastewater collection and treatment works, facilities and systems.
(Prior Code, § 51.160) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matters under standard laboratory procedures
in five at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CAPACITY. Relates to the costs to provide the necessary capacity in the
upgraded, existing system (i.e., treatment plants, lift stations, sewer pipes
and the like).
   CAPACITY FEES. Fees levied and designed to recover the costs to replace the
capacity that is used by a new customer for a period of 20 years at a monthly
charge.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private business and service establishments.
   DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works to
support the annual debt service obligation of the system.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNITS (ERU). The existing and anticipated equivalent
residential units whether commercial, industrial, institutional, governmental
and/or residential user within the area when the city constructs wastewater
facilities (i.e., sewers and the like) in a specifically defined geographic
area.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative and
regulatory activities of federal, state and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402
of the Clean Water Act.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Social, charitable, religious and educational activities
such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal institutions and
similar institutional users.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste produced from non-
commercial or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human
living processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The functions that result in expenditures during
the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and
other items which are necessary for managing, and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT as defined in this section.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city’s wastewater collection and
treatment works, facilities and systems whose lot, parcel or real estate or
building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT. Relates to the costs to provide service to a general
area or a specific area as may be determined by the city.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES. Fees levied on all properties that receive service,
directly or indirectly, through system development constructed facilities for a
period of 20 years at a monthly charge.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Includes the words and terms of “wastewater collection and
treatment works, facilities and systems.” Any devices and systems for the
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic
wastewater or liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers,
outfall sewers, wastewater collection systems, pumping, power and other
equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling,
additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable
recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and
any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part
of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting
from such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of
such compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land
treatment systems before land application); or any other method or system for
preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of
municipal waste or industrial waste in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.161) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.192 CAPACITY FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a capacity fee for all new sewer
construction in the city. The capacity fee for each equivalent residential unit
(ERU) is calculated as follows:
      (1)   CF = net worth (wastewater system) dollars/G.P.D.;
      (2)   System capacity (gallons use per day); and
      (3)   CF/ERU dollars/GPD x average use(s) per day(s).
   (B)   Qualified users are allowed to pay this fee in monthly installments
for up to 60 months with project interest based upon the then current bond
interest schedule. This capacity fee shall be calculated by the Mayor and/or
his or her designee and the City Clerk/Treasurer. This calculation and
information sheet shall be provided to the qualified user by the Mayor and or
City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 51.162) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.193 WASTEWATER FACILITY CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
   Henceforth, as the city constructs wastewater facilities (i.e., sewers and
the like) in a specifically defined geographic area, all costs related to the
construction of associated facilities shall be divided equally among the
existing and anticipated equivalent residential units (ERUs) within the area.
Costs to provide service shall include, but not be limited to, legal fees for
property and/or easement acquisition, engineering costs, construction costs and
other related project costs.
(Prior Code, § 51.163) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.194 PROJECT/GEOGRAPHICAL AREA.
   The city shall define by resolution the project/geographical area; and
through public notification in the newspaper and/or notice letter, the city
shall publish the project survey and the ERU costs for the project area subject
to the fee.
(Prior Code, § 51.164) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.195 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a system development fee for all new sewer
construction by the city as calculated by the following formulas: extension of
service (interceptors, pump stations, mains and the like) and system
development fee equals project costs, divided by projected ERUs, times users.
   (B)   Qualified users are allowed to pay this fee in monthly installments
for up to 60 months with project interest based upon the then current bond
interest schedule. This system development fee shall be calculated by the Mayor
and/or his or her designee and the City Clerk/Treasurer. The calculations and
information sheet shall be provided to the qualified user by the Mayor and or
City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 51.165) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.196 NOTIFICATION OF FEES/CHARGES.
   (A)   When each property owner is requesting connection to the city
wastewater system, each property owner will be notified by the Mayor and/or
City Clerk/Treasurer of the capacity fee and system development fee applicable
for the property. This notification shall be in writing and detail the ERU
costs for the project area. This notification letter/notice shall state the
date upon which associated appointment warrants (property liens) shall be
placed on the property deed, unless payment in full of the assessment fees
amount is paid to the city prior to that date.
   (B)   Anticipated ERUs include, but are not limited to, vacant lots,
undeveloped property that could be further subdivided into lots within the
assessment zone and the like. Appointment warrants will remain, and are
transferable to future property owners, for those undeveloped properties/lots
until such time as development requiring wastewater facilities occurs. When
such undeveloped properties are later developed, payment of the system
development fees and capacity fees are required at the time of connection
permit issuance by the city or payable consistent with the provisions set forth
herein.
(Prior Code, § 51.166) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.197 CHARGES IN ADDITION TO EXISTING SEWER TAP-ON FEES.
   Capacity fees and system development fees are in addition to and independent
from any and all existing sewer tap-on fees as established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.167) (Ord. 716-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter except as
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $500 or confined or imprisoned for not more than 180
days, or both. Each day an activity prohibited by this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
51.003 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined and/or
imprisoned as provided in the appropriate state statutes.
   (C)   Any person who continues any violation of any provision of this
chapter, as provided in §
51.172, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $200
nor more than $500 for each violation. Each day in which the violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   The city shall recover from any person who shall violate any provision
of this chapter and thereby cause or occasion the city to suffer any damage,
expense or penalty, a sum equal to all of the damage, expense or penalty, plus
its attorneys’ fees, fees of professionals employed to determine the source of
such violation or to testify and all other litigation expenses. Conviction of a
violation of a provision of this chapter shall not bar or hinder the city in
such recovery.
   (E)   (1)   Any permittee who violates any regulation, term or condition of
its wastewater contribution permit or §
51.086(B), shall be liable to the city for civil penalties of $1,000 plus costs
and actual damages incurred to or sustained by the city’s municipal sewer
system per violation per day for as long as the violation continues.
      (2)   Any permittee who willfully or negligently violates any
requirement, term or condition of its wastewater contribution permit or §
51.086(B) shall be subject to criminal prosecution, and upon conviction, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000,
confinement for not more than one year, or both fine and confinement per
violation per day. In the event of a second or subsequent conviction, the
permittee shall be subject to felony prosecution punishable by a fine not to
exceed $3,000 per violation per day, confinement for not more than five years,
or both fine and confinement.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, any permittee
who is found to have violated any regulation, term or condition of its
wastewater contribution permit, §
51.086(B), or orders issued by the city germane to said wastewater contribution
permit or §
51.086(B) shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation. Each
day on which noncompliance shall occur shall be deemed a separate and distinct
violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.999) (Ord. 409-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 570-1998, passed
1-5-1998)
APPENDIX A: WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT
CITY OF DRY RIDGE
WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT
Permit No.                 
DURATION:
   The herein permit is issued for the current calendar year only which begins
on the January 1 and concludes on December 31 and terminates on December 31 of
said calendar year of issuance. Therefore, each user must make an annual
application for issuance of a wastewater contribution permit.
AUTHORITY & APPLICABILITY:
   The herein permit is issued to the herein named USER in accordance with all
the terms and conditions of City of Williamstown Ordinance No. 1991-320
existing or thereafter amended, including all references to industrial waste
and discharges therein; issued in accordance with the terms, conditions and
references of the City of Dry Ridge’s Wastewater Contribution Permit currently
issued to it by the City of Williamstown, Kentucky; and issued, subject to and
controlled by all applicable provisions of federal or state law or the
regulations of same.
ISSUANCE & PERMISSION:
   Subject to the hereinafter Requirements General or Specific, Terms &
Conditions, Penalties & Sanctions, Records Requirements & Inspections,
Discharge Parameters and Definitions, a WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS IS
HEREBY ISSUED TO THE HEREINAFTER NAMED “USER” for the current calendar year
beginning on the January 1, and concluding on December 31.
USER NAME & ADDRESS:
(X)                      
CITY OF DRY RIDGE
DATE:                        
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   USER’s records relating to water consumption and to wastewater discharges,
including, but not limited to, analysis of wastewater constituents must be
maintained and retained by the permittee for a minimum of three years and shall
be available to the City of Dry Ridge’s review and inspection, on request, at
any time during such three-year period.
   The USER must notify the City of Dry Ridge, in writing, of the introduction
of any new wastewater constituents or any changes in volume or character of
wastewater constituents being introduced into the city’s municipal sewer
system, at least 30 days prior to commencement of any such discharge.
   The USER shall immediately notify the City of Dry Ridge on any slug
discharges into the city’s municipal sewer system. Such notice shall be by
telephone call to the city’s offices, or by E911 call, if the city’s offices
are not open.
   If additional pretreatment is required by the USER, the USER shall provide
the City of Dry Ridge with such additional pretreatment schedule for review and
approval. However, the completion date of such additional pretreatment schedule
shall not be later than the completion date established for by the applicable
pretreatment standards.
RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   Wastewater personnel of the City of Dry Ridge shall be provided access and
entry to the USER’S premises and facilities at all reasonable time and
immediately in the case of an emergency.
   Wastewater personnel of the City of Dry Ridge shall have access to and may
copy any records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of this
permit.
   Wastewater personnel of the City of Dry Ridge shall access to and the right
of entry to the USER’S premises and facilities to inspect any monitoring
equipment or monitory method required under this permit and to split samples or
sample any discharge of pollutants into the city’s municipal sewer system.
REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   Revocation of this permit will issue for (1) Violation of any condition or
regulation of applicable Federal or State Regulation; (2) Failure to factually
report wastewater constituents and characteristics of user discharge; (3)
Failure to report significant changes in user’s operations or wastewater
constituents and characteristics; (4) Failure to afford reasonable access or
entry to the user’s premises or facilities for purposes of inspection or
monitoring; or (5) Violation of the terms and conditions of this permit.
MONITORING: Discharges shall be monitored as follows.
Contaminant Sample Daily Maximum Monthly Average Not To Parameter Monitoring
                   Concentration Exceed                 Frequency
Contaminant Sample    Daily Maximum Monthly Average Not To Parameter Monitoring
                      Concentration Exceed                 Frequency
Ammonia composite     30            30                     1/month
Biochemical oxygen    200           200                    1/month
demand
Cadmium total         0.013         0.013                  S/A
Chromium, total       0.30          0.30                   S/A
composite
Copper, total         0.20          0.20                   S/A
composite
Cyanide, total grab   0.04          0.04                   S/A
Lead, total           0.065         0.065                  S/A
composite*
Nickel, total         0.56          0.56                   S/A
composite
Oil & grease total    100           100                    1/month
Silver, total         0.04          0.04                   S/A
composite
Total suspended       200           200                    1/month
solids composite
Water flow continuous N/A           N/A                    Daily
Zinc, total composite 1.35          1.35                   S/A
Such monitoring and sampling shall be done at the County School Road Station,
and the USER will be provided with a written report of such monitoring and
sampling.
 
EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE:
   In the event a USER discharges wastes to the city’s municipal sewer system
having an average BOD content in excess of 200 mg/l, or an averaged suspended
solids content in excess of 200 mg/l, an average of ammonia nitrogen in excess
of 30 mg/l, the USER shall pay a surcharge based upon the excess strength of
said USER’S wastes.
   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each USER of the sewage works
that contributes excessive strength sewage:
 
Ammonia-nitrogen $0.339 per pound
BOD              $0.075 per pound
Suspended solids $0.339 per pound
 
   The costs of treatment for each pound of BOD, suspended solids and ammonia-
nitrogen removed, shall be reviewed at the time of and in conjunction with the
review of the user charge. Surcharge rates shall be revised where necessary to
approximate current treatment costs. These rates shall be in effect until the
next rate review.
Mode & Definitions:
   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which references are made shall be determined in accordance with 40
C.F.R. part 136.
   Samples shall also be collected and analyzed during any unusual variance in
plant operation, including, but not limited to, non-daily cleaning and flushing
operation of equipment. Required sample frequency may be altered by the City of
Dry Ridge at such time as consistent effluent data can be verified or a
parameter’s discharge limit is being violated consistently.
   The monthly reporting period is through the last day of each month. And a
complete discharge report shall be in the office of the Superintendent,
Williamstown Wastewater System by the tenth of the following month.
   Types of samples are defined as follows.
      COMPOSITE. An influent or effluent portion collected continuously over a
period of 24 hours at a rate proportional to the flow.
      GRAB. A single influent or effluent portion which is not a composite
sample. Such sample(s) shall be collected at the period(s) most representative
of the total discharge.
   The following terms have the following definitions.
      SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routing episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch
discharge or any discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of
any given constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flow rate during normal operation which adversely affects the city’s
treatment facility.
      SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand) (BOD)
released in a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause
interference with the operation of the treatment works or exceeds limits set
forth in the industry’s wastewater contribution permit and includes accidental
spills.
Civil penalties:
   Any USER who violates this permit shall be liable to the city for a civil
penalty of not more than $1,000 plus actual damages incurred to the city’s
municipal sewer system per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues.
Criminal prosecution:
   Any USER who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this permit
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 per violation per day, or confinement for not more than one year,
or both fine and confinement.
   In the event of a second or subsequent conviction, the USER shall be subject
to a felony prosecution punishable by a fine not to exceed $3,000 per violation
per day, confinement for not more than five years, or both fine and
confinement.
Administrative fines:
   Notwithstanding any other section of this permit, any USER who is found to
have violated a provision of this and orders issued hereunder shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation. Each day on which noncompliance
shall occur shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation.
 
CITY OF DRY RIDGE
APPLICATION FOR WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT
 
APPLICANT’S NAME, ADDRESS & TELEPHONE NUMBER
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
(          )                                              
 
APPLICANT’S DAILY DISCHARGE VOLUME & DISCHARGE CONSTITUENTS:
 
Daily Volume of Discharge:                              Gallons
 
Enumerate the Type and Characteristics of Effluents Discharged into Sewer System:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 
APPLICANT’S PRETREATMENT PROCEDURES:
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 
Signature & Date:
 
                              
                              
 
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Minimum water rates
   
52.02   Rates for water dispensed from city’s water station
   
52.03   Operation and maintenance manual
Tapping Procedures
   
52.15   Tapping prohibitions; requirements
   
52.16   Installation of meters; fees
   
52.17   Failure to pay fees; lien
   
52.18   Private water tapping; application and fees
   
52.19   Prohibitions for mobile home installations
   
52.20   Requirement for separate lines
   
52.21   Prohibition against piping water onto land of another
   
52.22   Prohibition against tampering with water system
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MINIMUM WATER RATES.
   (A)   The minimum water bill shall be for 2,000 gallons of water. A three
tier rate structure shall be established as follows:
      (1)   The rate of $13.48 for each 1,000 gallon increment for the first
2,000 gallons;
      (2)   The rate of $12.84 for each 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
between 2,001 and 10,000 gallons; and
      (3)   The rate of $12.40 for each 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof above
10,000 gallons of water metered shall be charged or estimated as the case may
be, all to be exacted and charged.
   (B)   The effective change shall begin on the billing due date being October
15, 2023.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 348-1980, passed 8-4-1980; Ord. 480-1992, passed 3-
2-1992; Ord. 831-2017, passed 5-23-2017; Ord. 902-2023, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 52.02 RATES FOR WATER DISPENSED FROM CITY’S WATER STATION.
   The rate and charge for each unit of 1,000 gallons of water dispensed at the
city’s water loading station location on Meeks Road is established at the rate
of $4 for each unit of 1,000 gallons of water dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 441-1989, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 453-1990, passed 4-
16-1990; Ord. 479-1992, passed 3-2-1992; Ord. 496-1993, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 52.03 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL.
   For the calendar year of 2002 and all subsequent calendar years thereafter
until so amended or replaced by a subsequent document of like import and tenor,
the city’s Operation and Maintenance Manual for the city’s municipal water
distribution system is adopted by reference and incorporated as though fully
set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 634-2003, passed 3-3-2003)
TAPPING PROCEDURES
§ 52.15 TAPPING PROHIBITIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to tap into the water mains of the city
for the purpose of withdrawing water therefrom for use in any residence,
commercial, business or industrial building or premises which is located
outside of the incorporated limits of the city.
   (B)   No person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise, entity or
prospective customer shall be permitted to obtain water services from the city,
without first having the entire boundary circumscribing such prospective
customer’s real estate, and real property annexed to and into the incorporated
limits of the city, pursuant to statute and all requirements of law concerning
annexation.
   (C)   No person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise or entity
shall withdraw water from the water mains and lines of the city tap into the
water mains and lines of the city, or cause or have performed any manner of
work on the water mains, water lines or portions of the city’s water system
without first applying to the city, for written permission to withdraw water
from said water mains and lines, to tap into said water mains and lines or to
cause or have performed any manner of work on the water mains, water lines or
any portions of the city’s water system and, thereafter, paying the applicable
costs and charges due the city to so withdraw water, tap into the city’s water
mains and lines or to cause or have performed any manner of work on the water
mains, water lines or any portions of the city’s water system.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 INSTALLATION OF METERS; FEES.
   The costs and charges payable to the city to have the city make or supervise
the making of a boring or tap into the city’s water mains and lines and to set
and install an appropriate water metering device or to supervise the setting
and installation of an appropriate water metering device are so fixed, set and
established as follows:
   (A)   The sum and amount of $1,000 to make a tap and install the appropriate
water metering device for a bore diameter of five-eighths by three-fourths
inches, plus costs and charges extraordinary as may be incurred by the city to
so make and effect the requested tap and install the required water metering
device for a residential user/customer only;
   (B)   To effect or supervise a tap having a bore diameter of greater than
five-eighths by three-fourths inches and install or supervise the installation
of the appropriate water metering device for a bore diameter of greater than
five-eighths by three-fourths inches, the charges due and payable by the user/
customer nonresidential, shall be those costs and amounts as determined or
estimated by the city to effect or supervise the tap and to effect or supervise
the due installation of the required water metering device/unit, all duly set
forth within a written agreement containing therein a provision and covenant
regarding extraordinary expenses and costs which may be incurred by the city to
effect or supervise the tap or installation of the appropriate water metering
device/unit, all payable by the city’s user/customer nonresidential before the
water lines be charged or service provided, and with such costs and charges to
the nonresidential user/customer being not less than the sum and amount of
$1,000 plus all costs and expenses actual and extraordinary, all payable by the
user/customer nonresidential; and for apartment units or apartment buildings,
the charge and fee of $1,000 with costs and expenses extraordinary shall be
exacted plus the added charge and fee of $300 per each apartment or apartment
unit within the building or structure; and
    (C)   All costs and charges hereinabove so set, fixed and established as a
“minimum” or “estimated” to effect a tap and install a water metering device or
unit, shall be paid by the customer/owner of the property or premises to the
city prior to the city’s beginning performance of work and providing materials.
Extraordinary costs and expenses incurred, shall be payable by the customer/
owner of the property or premises immediately to the city upon receipt of the
notice of such additional costs and charges forwarded or tendered by the city
to the customer or owner.
(Prior Code, § 52.11) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 585-1999, passed 4-
19-1999; Ord. 667-2005, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 52.17 FAILURE TO PAY FEES; LIEN.
   Should the costs and charges provided for in §
52.16 be not paid by the customer or owner of the property or premises to the
city, then in such event, the city, shall:
   (A)   Be permitted and allowed not to provide, discontinue or terminate,
without notice, water services to the property or premises until such time as
all costs and charges are paid; and
   (B)   Have a claim and lien upon and against the property and premises and
against the owner of the property or premises and against the customer for the
costs and expenses, with interest, incurred to effect a tap and to install a
water metering device or unit, all enforceable by legal action appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 52.18 PRIVATE WATER TAPPING; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Any customer, person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise
or entity desiring to effect a “private” tap into the city’s water mains or
lines, install a water metering device or unit or have performed any manner of
work on the water mains, water lines or any portions of the city’s water
system, shall:
      (1)   Make written application to the city for permission to effect such
private tap or work;
      (2)   Receive such written permission and have issued any licenses
required;
      (3)   Submit a complete set of scaled plans and specifications for the
work to be performed, a materials list and the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of the applicant’s contractors and mechanics engaged to perform work or
services; and
      (4)   Pay unto the city the fees, costs and charges hereinafter
established and set forth necessary for the city to inspect and supervise any
and all such private work.
   (B)   The fees, costs and charges payable to the city for the city’s
required inspection and supervision of the “private” work referred to above,
shall be that sum and amount as determined or estimated by the city to
reasonably compensate the city for the time and expenses incurred to inspect
and supervise the applicant’s work, all to be duly set forth within a written
agreement containing therein provisions and covenants as to a sum and amount
certain or open, as the case may be, depending upon the size and scope of the
work or project and which written agreement is to be duly executed and
delivered by the city and the city’s customer and the owner of the property and
premises whereupon such work is to be provided or performed. All written
agreements shall provide therein for a cost or charge minimum payable to the
customer or owner to the city.
   (C)   The customer or owner shall pay the city the costs or charges minimum
or certain stated within the written agreement at the time of execution and
delivery of same. Any estimated costs or charges shall be payable by the
customer or owner to the city upon completion of the work or project and tender
of the city’s final bill or statement for costs and services. If such costs and
charges be not paid, then the city shall have the claim, lien or remedies
against property and persons provided for in §
52.17.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 52.19 PROHIBITIONS FOR MOBILE HOME INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   No customer, person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise
or entity shall permit any house trailer or mobile home unit to be attached to
the same water meter or the same water lines as are utilized by any other
building or structures residential, commercial or industrial, or another
existing house trailer or mobile home unit.
   (B)   All house trailers or mobile home units shall be required to be
serviced by separate water lines providing water thereto and have a separate
water meter to measure the consumption and use of water provided.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 REQUIREMENT FOR SEPARATE LINES.
   (A)   All property or premises provided or receiving municipal water
services shall be required to have separate water mains or lines for each
structure or building located upon the property and shall be required to have a
separate water meter or water metering device or metering system on each water
line providing water to a building or structure to more accurately measure
water provided and consumed.
   (B)   Such water meters, water metering devices or water metering systems
shall be located and situated at sites and places upon the property or premises
as determined and directed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 52.21 PROHIBITION AGAINST PIPING WATER ONTO LAND OF ANOTHER.
   No customer, person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise or
entity shall cause or permit any water drawn from the water mains and lines of
the city to be piped or otherwise directed onto the lands of another for
consumption, use or any purposes whatsoever whether the lands of another be
within or without the corporate limits of the city water system.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 PROHIBITION AGAINST TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person, firms, company, corporation, business enterprise or entity
shall, without first obtaining the prior written consent and approval of the
Mayor of the city, or his or her designee, open any fire hydrant of the
municipal water system, or remove any valve cover of the municipal water
system, or open any control device of the municipal water system. This
provision shall not apply to the officers, agents or employees of the city,
whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of their respective duties.
   (B)   No customer, person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise
or entity shall:
      (1)   Disconnect, disengage, by-pass or tamper with a water meter, water
metering device, water metering unit or water metering system;
      (2)   Cause, directly or indirectly, any opening to be made into any
water main or water line of the municipal water system;
      (3)   Make any unauthorized withdrawals or uses of water from the
municipal water system;
      (4)   Cause, permit or allow any water drawn from the water mains or
lines of the municipal water system to be piped or otherwise directed onto the
lands of another for consumption, use or any purposes whatsoever;
      (5)   Cause, permit or allow any water meter, water metering device,
water metering unit, water metering system or water service line duly and
officially disconnected or disengage by the city to be reconnected, engaged or
energized so as to continue water service;
      (6)   Cause, permit, allow or have performed any unauthorized work or
services provided to the municipal water system or have installed any water
metering device, components or appurtenances not authorized and approved by the
city;
      (7)   Intentionally, willfully or through act of gross negligence, do,
commit, perform, permit, allow, engage in or encourage any act which may, will
or does cause proximately any manner or degree of injury or damage to the
municipal water system or any of its parts, components, appurtenances or to the
operation of such municipal water system; and/or
      (8)   Cover any meter jar cover, valve cover or control device of the
municipal water system with dirt, gravel or any other materials or matter of
any kind or nature.
(Prior Code, § 52.17) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any customer, person, firm, company, corporation, business enterprise or
entity violating any provisions of this chapter shall:
   (A)   Have water service, without notice, immediately terminated;
   (B)   Be subject to actions and litigation for relief and redress of damages
for injury or loss and expenses occasioned by such violation; and
   (C)   Be guilty of a misdemeanor for each separate violation and be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $500; confined in the place of appropriate
detention for not less than ten days nor more than six months; or both fine and
confinement.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 509-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
CHAPTER 53: BILLING PROCEDURES
Section
   
53.01   Premises liability and lien security
   
53.02   Liabilities of owner or occupant
   
53.03   Utility accounts
   
53.04   Utility services initiation, requirements and expenditures
   
53.05   Utility billings and payments
   
53.06   Utility services matters general, germane and miscellaneous
§ 53.01 PREMISES LIABILITY AND LIEN SECURITY.
   Such residential real estate property and premises together with all
hereditaments, appurtenances, improvements, accessions and fixtures thereupon
or thereto, so provided or receiving the benefit of potable water or sanitary
sewerage services, shall be subject lien, levy, claim and assessment immediate
for the cost and charges for the municipal utilities services provided to same
whether such property or premises be vacant, or occupied by the owner thereof,
or the owner’s tenant, lessee or assigns.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 53.02 LIABILITIES OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   The owner (fee grantee under indenture of mesne conveyance) of the property
or premises provided or receiving utilities services together with the owner’s
tenant, lessee or assigns, shall be jointly and severally liable and
responsible for the payment of any and all cost and charges for the water and
sewerage utilities services so provided.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 53.03 UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   All utility service accounts shall be listed, carried and maintained in the
name of the fee owner of the property or premises receiving or provided water
or sewerage utility services whether said fee owner be in situ or otherwise not
in repose. Further, if said property or premises be subject to let or lease,
the lessee-tenant shall also be listed on the utilities’ service account,
especially if the lessee-tenant be the applicant-depositor of or on a utility
initiation deposit account referred to herein. Further and however, the naming
or showing of the name of the lessee-tenant on the utilities service account
shall not affect, effect or otherwise negate the owner’s liability or
responsibility for account payment or having the serviced property or premises
being subjected to lien, claim or assessments for utilities’ debts incurred or
had for payment default.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 53.04 UTILITY SERVICES INITIATION, REQUIREMENTS AND EXPENDITURES.
   Prior to the initiation, delivery, providing or connection to property or
premises of utilities for potable water and/or sanitary sewerage services, the
prospective customer, whether owner, a tenant or both, shall make application
to the City Clerk/Treasurer and comply, stand and perform as follows:
   (A)   Be competent to transact business and if a person, be beyond nonage
and at least 18 years of age;
   (B)   Provide assurance that the property and premises to receive utilities
services has an inside turnoff valve for water service;
   (C)   The making and execution of the application form by the owner, the
tenant-lessee if the property is under lease or let, and the record filing of a
copy of the landlord and tenant lease or having the landlord’s memorialized and
signed acknowledgment on the application form as to the nature and term of the
tenancy, leasehold and premises occupancy by the tenant-applicant;
   (D)   For both residential and nonresidential properties and premises, the
owner or tenant of same, as the case may be, shall pay to the to the City
Clerk/Treasurer a service fee as determined and warranted for initiation of
utility services and further shall make an initiation charge/security deposit
to provide a good faith fund against the ongoing costs, charges and expenses
for utilities, to-wit: $100 for municipal water service; and $100 for sanitary
sewerage services, all in the total amount of $200;
   (E)   In the event of a default, delinquency or nonpayment of the
depositor’s utility charges billing account, the monies within the customer’s
initiation charge/security deposit account shall be applied toward the payment
of any and all outstanding delinquent debts due and owing as to the customer’s
utilities billing account with the surplus therein, if any, after application
to the billing delinquency, to remain in said initiation charge/security
deposit account; and
   (F)   Except as to utility customers that are non-owner tenants or lessees
of the property or premises having an initiation charge/security deposit
account active together with a customer utility billing account that has been
timely serviced and paid and not subject to the issuance of a delinquency or
default during the 12-month billing cycle next after the time of initial
deposit, then such deposit account shall, upon request, be refunded, except
that such deposit made by a renter, lessee or tenant shall not be refunded or
made until termination of lease or the depositor’s leasehold estate and the
depositor’s due removal and vacation of the property and premises under and
together with the depositor’s payment of his or her final bill as provided for
herein.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 53.05 UTILITY BILLINGS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall prepare monthly utility billings and send the same to
the customers at the addresses provided by said customers.
   (B)   Failure to receive a monthly bill will in no way release the customer
from due dates or any other related obligations, including timely payment. Any
customer who does not receive a bill for utilities provided by the city, shall
notify the City Clerk/Treasurer that no bill was received, and, thereafter, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall make and issue a new bill to the customer.
   (C)   All utility bills shall be paid timely by cash, check, certified
check, money order or credit card made payable to the order of the city.
Partial payments of said billing and accounts may be accepted by the city by
decision and entry made by the City Council upon application. However, said
partial payment shall be considered as a default by the customer so subjecting
the customer and the property or premises being provided utilities’ services to
actions for default and nonpayment of utility accounts which may result in
penalties, service charges and disconnection from and termination of service.
   (D)   A utility customer’s returned check shall be deemed and considered as
a nonpayment subjecting the customer to a levy and payment of a service fee for
an account in default. Further, should a customer at any time suffer a second
returned or dishonored check, the same will result in another service fee; and,
thereafter, such customer shall be required to pay utility billings by cash,
money order or credit card.
   (E)   All monthly utility billing accounts are due on the fifteenth day of
each calendar month and subject to the levy of a penalty of 10% and other
determined charges and fees, if not paid within and by the fifteenth day of
that instant, calendar month to the city by the close of the city’s business
day being 5:00 p.m., prevailing time, by worthy and honored remittance to the
city offices and personnel direct; by deposit to and within the city’s drop-box
at the entrance of the entrance of the city building; by official United States
postal delivery to and placement of said payment into the city’s mailbox at the
United States Post Office in the city; by electronic draft or credit card
payment via the city’s website online utility payment system; or by worthy and
timely payment made to the city’s order into the city’s utility payment account
at the Forcht Bank in the city.
   (F)   Any utility billing account not paid by the twenty-second day of the
calendar month, or paid thereafter, shall be deemed to be delinquent, in
default, subject to the levy of a 10% penalty as provided for in division (E)
above, a determined service of $35, and other service fees and charges found,
and the immediate disconnection of utility services. Further, monies owed after
5:00 p.m., prevailing time on the twenty-second, shall be paid or remitted by
guaranteed funds only.
   (G)   If after two consecutive months of nonpayment and or delinquent status
of any utility account, the city shall immediately final the account in
delinquency, apply any deposit as prescribed in §
53.04 due the account, and lock all utility services as possible. If the
utility account is in the name of a tenant, the property owner shall be
notified directly by phone, email and/or regular U.S. mail as to the status and
balance of account for the property. Also, the city shall notify the solid
waste services provider to suspend any city paid collection services for that
service address.
   (H)   Upon finding of a utility billing account to be delinquent, in
addition to termination of utilities’ service, the city, may at its election,
take all actions, in law or equity, to enforce and foreclose its lien upon
property and premises for monies and debts owed for utilities, or take any
actions to recover the debt or monies owed.
(Prior Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 UTILITY SERVICES MATTERS GENERAL, GERMANE AND MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   No initial or reconnected utilities services shall be made or provided
to person, property or premises until the initiation charges and deposits are
made and paid.
   (B)   No initial or reconnected utility services shall be provided to
person, property or premises for or to which utilities billing accounts be
delinquent, or for, or to, or upon which monies and sums be still owed or
remain unpaid, or be in delinquency, until such delinquent accounts or monies
owed for current utilities services be paid.
   (C)   No person or customer having one or more utility billing accounts in
default, or being deemed as delinquent, shall be provided utilities services to
any other site, location, address, place or any other property or premises
within the city, until any and all such utility billing accounts in default or
being delinquent be paid current.
   (D)   Returned or dishonored customer checks or drafts are and shall be
deemed and treated as a no payment and nonpayment subject to determined service
charges and service fees and be grounds for the finding of a customer default
or delinquency and termination of service.
   (E)   Customers tendering or suffering two returned or dishonored checks, or
drafts, or other modes of payment direct or to a factor’s intermediate
depository debt-payment account inuring to the city’s benefit for initiation
charge/security deposit or the amount of a utility billing account, shall be,
thereafter, required to pay utility billing accounts by guaranteed funds only
and be subject to all determined services charges and service fees.
   (F)   Service charges and service fees referenced herein are monies settled
and inuring to the benefit of the city to compensate it for expenses incurred
for requisite utilities’ work and activities, or insure the city for and
against financial-monetary-accounting expenses issuing out of utility
customer’s dishonored or non-worthy payments and tenders, all being in an
amount and sum present and current of not less than $35 for each determined,
covered activity or exposure to financial-monetary-accounting liability or
loss.
   (G)   If the last day of the due-payment term-period provided for and
referenced in §
53.05(E) falls on a weekend, Saturday, Sunday or any holiday observed by the
city, then the utility customer is given to 5:00 p.m., prevailing time, on the
next business-working day to make and effect a worthy payment direct to the
city’s offices or as provided for in §
53.05(E) and of even date.
(Prior Code, § 53.13) (Ord. 848-2018, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Adoption of state law
   
70.07   Certain vehicles prohibited
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection and such other portions of the roadway between
two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked
by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of the portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased
person when each vehicle has it headlights on or is displaying a pennant
attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles, as defined above, except: road
rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power shovels are
mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while being
operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more than
five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicle propelled by
muscular power.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agencies
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks. Includes all agencies for the
transportation of persons or property over or upon the public highways of the
Commonwealth and all vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(KRS 189.010(19))
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The state statutes germane and applicable to vehicular traffic and the
operation of vehicles and the use of streets, roadways and highways by
pedestrians are hereby adopted and shall be duly enforced by the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 482-1992, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 70.07 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as allowed to legitimate handicapped persons or permitted by
KRS Chapter 189, no use or operation of any wind-powered, foot-powered, pedal-
powered or motorized wagon, scooter, unicycle, bicycle, tricycle or other like
vehicle shall be allowed or permitted upon the sidewalks, streets,
thoroughfares, boulevards, alleyways or passways of the city.
   (B)   Except as may be allowed or permitted within the city’s park upon the
skateboarding facility/event, no skateboarding, roller skating, in-line
skating, in-line roller skating, unicycling, bicycling, tricycling or
scootering shall be allowed or permitted on or upon the sidewalks, streets,
thoroughfares, boulevards, alleyways or passways of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.40) (Ord. 705-2007, passed 1-8-2007) Penalty, §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
   (B)   Any person who is found to have violated §
70.07 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each violation or
offense committed.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
(Ord. 705-2007, passed 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.001   Obstructing traffic
   
71.002   Reverse or U turns
   
71.003   Backing vehicles
   
71.004   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.005   Speed limit
   
71.006   Vehicle weight limits
Accidents
   
71.020   Duty of operator
   
71.021   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.035   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.036   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.037   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.038   Operation of unlicensed vehicle
   
71.039   Operation of vehicle emitting disturbing noises; offensive odors and
fumes
Funeral Processions
   
71.050   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.065   Definitions
   
71.066   Permit required
   
71.067   Application for permit
   
71.068   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.069   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.070   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.071   Alternative permit
   
71.072   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.073   Contents of permit
   
71.074   Duties of permittee
   
71.075   Public conduct during parades
   
71.076   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 SPEED LIMIT.
   Unless otherwise posted, the speed limit upon all streets, thoroughfares and
roadways within the incorporated limits of the city shall be 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 482-1992, passed 4-6-1992) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle having a gross weight of more than
36,000 pounds on and/or over any street located within the corporate limits and
maintained solely by the city.
   (B)   If any person, entity or corporation shall first obtain a permit from
the City Clerk/Treasurer, then he, she or they shall be permitted to operate
according to the terms of the permit.
   (C)   The permit shall not be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer unless the
person, entity or corporation shall first post a bond to the city with good and
sufficient surety that he, she or they will pay any and all damage caused by
the operation of all vehicles covered by the permit.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby ordered and directed to purchase
and have placed at the entrance to all such streets, a small sign reading as
follows: “Trucks having a gross weight of more than 36,000 pounds not allowed
on this street unless a permit therefor is obtained.”
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 133, passed - -1951) Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.020 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see IRS 189.580
§ 71.021 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.035 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle, equipped with and operating
one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights, visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle; or
when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive
to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection and stop and remain in such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 OPERATION OF UNLICENSED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate an
unlicensed vehicle within the city limits, except that the provisions hereof
shall not apply to farm tractors.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 238, passed 5-3-1966) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.039 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EMITTING DISTURBING NOISES; OFFENSIVE ODORS AND
FUMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or operate
any motor vehicle within the city limits, whether licensed or not, if same
shall emit loud and disturbing sounds and noises, or noxious fumes and odors
and smoke of a gaseous nature, offensive to smell.
(Prior Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 238, passed 5-3-1966) Penalty, see §
71.999
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.050 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not a part of a funeral
procession shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other
act for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral
processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) (Prior Code, § 71.30) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operate for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting with the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.067 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the Parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Application fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an
application for a parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.068 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and/or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.069 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.070 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.071 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.072 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.073 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.999 
§ 71.074 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The Parade Chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.075 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.076 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any provision of §
71.005 shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the schedule of fines
established under KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in §
71.006 shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.990(2)(a).
   (D)   Any person who violates §
71.036 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60
nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (E)   Any person who violates §
71.050 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250
or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
(Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Parking obstruction; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Parking for persons with disabilities
   
72.12   Trucks over two and one-half ton in capacity prohibited from parking in
residential areas
   
72.13   Fire lanes and hydrants
   
72.14   Loading zones
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Finding and declaration
   
72.41   Announcement and notice
   
72.42   Removal of vehicles and motor vehicles
Enforcement
   
72.55   Hearing Board
   
72.56   Parking violations
   
72.57   Response to notice
   
72.58   Contest of parking violation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 PARKING OBSTRUCTION; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstructions or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within eight inches of and parallel with the curb,
sidewalk or designated area.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading or unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of any street.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking
shall not be established where the roadway space required therefor would be
within ten feet of the centerline of any street.
      (2)   Such diagonal parking places shall be designated by suitable signs
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within such vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle, except that one vehicle may use
two parking spots when said vehicle is in tow of a trailer.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for an unhitched trailer or uncoupled trailer,
drag or truck trailer shall be left standing unattended of any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance of this
subchapter or when directed by a public safety official or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than specified in §
72.02;
      (2)   On the curbs or sidewalks in the city;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for person with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to official vehicles when operating and properly identified
during the performance of their official duties; and
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under their control into
any such prohibited area.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any type of motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other motor-propelled vehicle in any area of the city which has
been designated as a no-parking zone.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 189.450(5)(f)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a motor vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or
as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
public safety official or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from their duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official sign.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this chapter or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted to
parking for person with disabilities, appropriate signs shall be erected giving
notice thereof. However in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction
therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator to stop on any
street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any place on any of the public ways or streets of
the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned and shall
be subject to the regulations of the city pertaining to abandoned motor
vehicles as set forth in Chapter 92.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority whenever in their judgment it is necessary to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or thereof constituting a part of the
route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to the effect
and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility. If at any time a vehicle is
parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses in violation of the provisions of
this section, the property owner/lessee has the right to have the vehicle
removed from said property at their expense.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provision of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person whose name the
vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle (except those
authorized by the city for maintenance, or other reasons seen fit) in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designated as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two wheels of
the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a disabled placard or disabled plate, when operated by a person with a
disability or when transporting a person with disability, may be parked in a
designated parking place for persons with disabilities. The vehicle may be
parked in a loading zone for that time necessary to permit entrance or exit of
the person with disabilities to or from the parked vehicle, but in no
circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner to constitute a
traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 TRUCKS OVER TWO AND ONE-HALF TON IN CAPACITY PROHIBITED FROM PARKING IN
RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It is unlawful for trucks over two and one-half tons in capacity to be
parked anywhere in the city on a residential street. For the purpose of this
section, a RESIDENTIAL STREET shall be defined as an area where a majority of
the buildings on a particular street are used for residential purpose.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 FIRE LANES AND HYDRANTS.
   (A)   A fire lane is hereby designated for emergency vehicles on the side of
the street where the fire hydrants are located. In the event there are no fire
hydrants on a street, the right-hand side of the street shall be designated a
fire lane as one enters the city street from the main thoroughfare. It shall be
illegal for anyone to park or leave standing a motor vehicle in any fire lane
in the city or on any turnaround or circle at the end of a dead-end street.
This shall apply to all city streets.
   (B)   No parking shall be permitted within a five-foot radius of a fire
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 LOADING ZONES.
   Loading zones are areas a business, public agency or other needs a specific
parking space or spaces for loading and unloading of goods. Parking in such
space is prohibited except for loading and unloading.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   All police officers and code enforcement staff are empowered to
authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release. Included herein shall be a
handling fee of $75 payable to the city for the time of the officers utilized
for the impoundment, all pursuant to KRS 82.625.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 FINDING AND DECLARATION.
   Whenever the Mayor or Chief of Police, alone or in concert, so find that the
existence or forecast of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a
condition which makes it necessary to restrict or prohibit the use, travel or
parking of motor vehicles upon any or all of the streets and roadways within
the city, the same may declare the existence of a snow emergency and then
announce and give notice of such snow emergency, providing therein the
commencement date and time; any orders, mandates, directives or prohibitions
applicable to vehicles or motor vehicles; and a designation, general or
specific, as to the streets and roadways within the city to be covered by such
declared emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) (Ord. 527-1995, passed 3-23-1995)
§ 72.41 ANNOUNCEMENT AND NOTICE.
   Announcement and notice of a declared snow emergency to citizens, city
residents and affected persons may be made and given by:
   (A)   Notification personal;
   (B)   The posting of signs or written notices; or
   (C)   Publication and broadcast over radio stations, television stations or
cable television networks serving the city area.
(Prior Code, § 72.36) (Ord. 527-1995, passed 3-23-1995)
§ 72.42 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle or motor vehicle that is stopped, parked or otherwise so located
upon any street or roadway within the city under a declared snow emergency, and
so stopped, parked or otherwise so located upon any such street or roadway in
violation of an order, mandate, directive, restriction or prohibition, shall be
deemed to be illegal and in violation of this subchapter and shall be relocated
or moved by any appropriate method, including tow, the costs of which shall be
paid by the owner or user of said vehicle or motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.37) (Ord. 527-1995, passed 3-23-1995)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.55 HEARING BOARD.
   A City Parking Regulation Board (“Hearing Board”) is established to conduct
hearings to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The Mayor shall appoint
three individuals to constitute the Hearing Board, at least two of whom must be
residents of the city. A quorum shall constitute two persons. A majority vote
of a quorum shall constitute the decision of the Hearing Board. A Chairperson
and Vice Chairperson (to serve in the absence of the Chairperson) shall be
elected by the members of the Board and shall preside over the meetings of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 72.50) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 72.56 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any motor vehicle is found parked, standing or stopped in violation
of a local parking ordinance, the vehicle may be issued a citation for the
appropriate violation. The citing officer or designated city representative
shall note the vehicle’s registration number and any other information
concerning the vehicle which will identify it and, if the driver is not
present, shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a notice of the parking
violation.
   (B)   The form of the notice of the parking violation shall be a form
designated by the city and shall contain in substance the following
information:
      (1)   The citation notice represents a determination that the owner of a
vehicle has committed a parking violation and this determination shall be final
unless contested as provided herein;
      (2)   The parking may result in impoundment of the vehicle for which the
owner may be liable for a fine and towing, handling and storage charges or
fees;
      (3)   The specific parking violation for which the citation was issued;
and
      (4)   The options provided in responding to the notice and the procedures
necessary to exercise these options as provided herein.
   (C)   The notice of parking violation represents a determination that a
parking violation has been committed, and shall be final unless contested as
provided herein.
   (D)   The schedule of monetary penalties for parking violations shall be as
follows.
Violation Section Fine
Violation                                                      Section     Fine
Double parking                                                 72.01(B)    $30
Failing to leave 10 feet of roadway passable                   72.02(C)    $30
Failure to display disabled placard/plate (fine reduced to $15 72.11(A)    $50
if shown)
Improper parking in area for persons with disabilities         72.11(A)    $50
Improper use of loading or unloading zone                      72.14       $30
Obstructional parking                                          72.01(A)    $30
Overtime parking (excess of time limit): first offense         72.06       $10
Overtime parking (excess of time limit): second offense        72.06       $20
Overtime parking (excess of time limit): third offense         72.06       $30
Overtime parking (excess of time limit): fourth offense        72.06       $40
Overtime parking (excess of time limit): each subsequent       72.06       $50
offense
Parking in marked fire lane                                    72.13(A)    $50
Parking within 5 feet of fire hydrant                          72.13(B)    $50
Prohibited parking: against official signs                     72.03(A)(6) $30
Prohibited parking: blocking driveway                          72.03(A)(4) $50
Prohibited parking: blocking ramp for persons with             72.03(A)(3) $50
disabilities
Prohibited parking: greater than 8 inches from curb, sidewalk  72.02(B)    $30
or designated area
Prohibited parking: within intersection or crosswalk           72.03(A)(5) $30
Prohibited parking: within 30 feet of traffic-control device   72.03(A)(7) $30
roadway side
Prohibited parking: yellow curb                                72.04(F)    $30
Unhitched/uncoupled trailer unattended                         72.02(F)    $30
Vehicle over 2 1/2 tons in residential area                    72.12       $30
 
(Prior Code, § 72.51) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 72.57 RESPONSE TO NOTICE.
   (A)   Any person who receives notice of a parking violation shall respond to
this notice as provided herein within seven days of the date of the notice, by
either paying the fine set forth in the notice or requesting a hearing as
provided herein.
   (B)   If the owner of a vehicle cited for a parking violation has not
responded to the notice within seven days as provided in division (A) above,
the city shall send a second notice by regular, first class mail to the last
known address of the registered owner of the vehicle as listed on the
certificate of title. Such notice shall state that if the owner of the vehicle
does not respond to the notice by either paying the fine or by requesting in
writing a hearing as provided herein, within seven days shall be deemed to have
refused to pay the fine levied by the citation. Fines not paid within seven
days shall be doubled and shall be due and payable within 30 days of the
offense. Any fine not paid within 30 days will result in the violation being
pursued through civil collection efforts.
(Prior Code, § 72.52) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.58 CONTEST OF PARKING VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person cited for a parking violation as provided herein may
contest the determination that a violation occurred by requesting in writing a
hearing before the Hearing Board. Such hearing shall be held no later than 14
days from the date of the request, unless prior to the hearing the person
requesting such hearing requests an extension of time not to exceed 14 days. No
less than seven days prior to the date set for the hearing, the Board shall
notify the registered owner of the vehicle of the date, time and place of the
hearing. Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine
levied by the citation and same shall be considered unpaid.
   (B)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Hearing Board
shall determine whether a violation occurred. If no violation occurred, an
order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If a violation occurred, the
Board shall uphold the citation and order the owner to pay the citation within
seven days. A copy of such order shall be furnished to the owner. Any person
ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so within seven days shall be deemed to
have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation and same shall be
considered unpaid.
   (C)   The Board may consider the parking citation and any other written
report made under oath by the officer who issued the citation in lieu of the
officer’s personal appearance at the hearing.
   (D)   An appeal from the Hearing Board’s determination may be made to the
district court of the county within seven days after the Board’s determination.
The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action under the Rules of Civil
Procedure. The action shall be tried de novo, and the burden shall be upon the
local government to establish that a violation occurred. If the court finds
that a violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay to the city all
fines, fees and penalties occurring as of the date of judgment. If the court
finds that a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
citation, and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover all costs.
   (E)   The judgment of the county district court may be appealed to the
county circuit court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 72.53) (Ord. 854-2018, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be deemed to have committed a
violation and shall be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Any person violating §§
72.40 through
72.42 or issued a citation for a parking violation shall be fined in an amount
of not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 527-1995, passed 3-23-1995)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Bicycle riding is prohibited on Main Street; but shall be permitted on
all sidewalks provided same does not interfere with or endanger pedestrians,
and any law enforcement officer shall have the authority to prohibit reckless
riding on any sidewalks.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 124, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   (A)   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play
streets” by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of
any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
   (B)   Roller skating shall be permitted on all sidewalks provided same does
not interfere with or endanger pedestrians, and any law enforcement officer
shall have the authority to prohibit reckless skating on any sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 124, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   City road system
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are designated as one-way in the directions indicated.
No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vehicle on said streets in
any direction of travel other than the directions indicated.
 
Street        Direction Ord. No. Date
Cross Street  South     193      7-5-1960
School Street East      193      7-5-1960
Walnut Street West      193      7-5-1960
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. I) Penalty, see §
71.999
SCHEDULE II. CITY ROAD SYSTEM.
   The following roads are part of the city road system.
Arbors Drive
BC Cotton Drive
Blackburn Lane
Bluff View
Brentwood Drive
Brown Lane
Business Boulevard
Church Street
Clara Jean Lane
Clark Street
Cliffs Way
Cobblestone Drive
Cross Street
Cull Lane
Dry Ridge-Mount Zion Road
Ellen Kay Drive
Elm Street
Fashion Ridge Road
Ferguson Boulevard
Forest Cove
Gilbert Avenue
Hogans Parkway
Hopperton Lane
Judith Street
Kings Drive
Knoxville Road
McCoy Road
Meadowview Drive
Meeks Road
New Del Drive
Oak Street
Old Warsaw Avenue
Race Street
Ralph Street
Redwood Drive
Ridgeview Drive
Ridgeview Circle
Ruthman Drive
School Street
Scott Street
Short Race Street
Theatre Drive
Virginia Court
Walnut Street
Warsaw Avenue
Wilorn Drive
Wood Gate
 
(Res. 2024-05, passed 7-15-2024)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Two-hour parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations.
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street                       Location                       Ord. No. Date
Broadway Street (also known  From intersection with U.S. 25
as State Highway 22 or Taft  to intersection with           204      12-5-1961
Highway)                     Interstate 75.
                             From intersection with U.S. 25
                             on both the west bound and
Broadway Street (also known  east bound sides of Broadway
as State Highway 22 or Taft  and continuing from that       382      11-15-1982
Highway)                     intersection of U.S. 25 west
                             bound for a distance of 75
                             feet.
                             From the intersection with the
                             westerly edge of U.S. Highway
Broadway Street              26 to the intersection with    551-1997 1-6-1997
                             the easterly boundary of the
                             Waffle House property.
Broadway Street (also known  From the west corporate limits
as State Highway 22 or Taft  of the city to limits of the   118      7-6-1948
Highway except in the outer  city to intersection of U.S.
lane)                        25.
                             On paved portion or right-of-
                             way from intersection with
                             Broadway Street/Taft Highway/
State Highway 2944 (no       State Highway 22 and therefrom
parking, stopping, standing, in a northerly direction on    430-1988 6-6-1988
storing or abandoning of     both the westerly and easterly
vehicle)                     sides - boundaries of State
                             Highway 2944 to the present or
                             future incorporated limits of
                             the city.
                             From a point beginning 75 feet
U.S. 25 (also known as South north of Walnut Street on the
Main Street)                 south bound side of U.S. 25 to 382      11-15-1982
                             the intersection with Walnut
                             Street.
                             From the intersection with the
                             westerly edge of U.S. Highway
Warsaw Avenue                25 to the intersection with    547-1996 10-14-1996
                             the westerly right-of-way line
                             of Oak Street.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sched. I) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any vehicle of any description
whatsoever to remain parked for a period of time in excess of two consecutive
hours between the hours indicated and in the following locations.
 
Street      Location            Side      Hours               Ord. No. Date
            In front of
            commercial
            establishments.
Main Street (This does not      Both      6:00 a.m. to 6:00   124      - -
            apply to the area             p.m.
            in front of and
            maintained by the
            Carlsbad Hotel.)
            From intersection
            of Broadway to Main
            Street southward to           6:00 a.m. to 6:00
Main Street and including the   Southwest p.m. except Sundays 165      4-3-1956
            ambulance driveway            and Holidays.
            of the Eckler
            Funeral Home.
            From Walnut Street            6:00 a.m, to 6:00
Main Street to Warsaw Avenue.   West      p.m. daily, except  175      2-5-1957
                                          Sundays.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sched. II) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping or harboring of vicious animals prohibited
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Registration of dogs; fee
   
90.22   Dogs running at large
   
90.23   Noise disturbance
   
90.24   Impoundment
   
90.25   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The relinquishment of all rights and claims by the owner to the
animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited
to, being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is
caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing,
tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space or health care or by
any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes; or
      (4)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, Animal Control Officer or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter, or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 KEEPING OR HARBORING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HARBOR. To provide food and shelter for any animal on other than a
periodic or temporary basis.
      OWN. To have any right of property in any animal, to keep an animal, to
have an animal in care or custody, or to knowingly permit an animal to remain
on or about any premises occupied by any person who owns an animal as herein
defined.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who keeps, permits
to be kept or harbors said animal knows or should reasonably know that the
animal is possessed of tendencies to attack or bite persons or other animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, permit to be kept or
harbor a vicious animal within the city; however, this section shall not apply
to animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency; provided,
that such animals are restrained by a leash or chain, cage, fence or other
adequate means, from contact with the general public.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who has been attacked by a vicious animal, or anyone
for such person, or any person who believes that a vicious animal is kept,
permitted to be kept or harbored within the city may make a complaint before
the district court charging the owner, person keeping or permitting to be kept
or person harboring such vicious animal with harboring a vicious animal within
the city in violation of this section. A copy of such complaint shall be served
upon the person so charged in the same manner and subject to the laws
regulating the service of summons in civil actions directing him or her to
appear for a hearing of such complaint at a time fixed therein.
      (2)   If such person fails to appear at the time fixed, or if, upon a
hearing of the parties and their witnesses, it is established to the
satisfaction of the court that the animal in question is a vicious animal and
that such animal is not or has not been restrained by a leash, chain, cage,
fence or other adequate means from any contact with the general public or with
persons who enter the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer with the actual
or implied permission thereof, such animal may be killed by a police officer or
humane officer. Before any vicious animal may be killed by a police officer or
humane officer as herein provided, the owner or harborer thereof shall be given
five days from the date of the court’s adjudication within which to permanently
remove such animal from the city.
   (D)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer within
the organization of the Police Department for the city. The Animal Control
Officer or his or her agent, or any officer of the law may:
      (1)   Enter upon private premises to apprehend a stray animal or a
vicious animal; or
      (2)   Seize, impound and, following the adjudication of the county
district court referred to hereinabove in division (A) above, dispose of any
vicious animal of any kind when necessary for the protection of any person or
animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 REGISTRATION OF DOGS; FEE.
   (A)   All persons keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits shall
cause the dog to be registered with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 15 days
after the dog is first brought within the city and annually not later than July
1 of each year.
   (B)   At the time of registration the owner or custodian of the dog shall
pay a fee of $2 and shall furnish to the Clerk/Treasurer a description of the
dog, including, at least, its breed, age, sex, descriptive or distinguishing
markings and a state dog license number.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 386-1983, passed 4-4-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   Any dog which barks or howls for a period in excess of 15 minutes is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 386-1983, passed 4-4-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 IMPOUNDMENT.
   All dogs which have not been duly licensed as required by KRS 258.135 and
registered with the City Clerk/Treasurer; and all dogs running loose upon the
streets, public ways, public alleys or any property other than the property of
the owner shall be taken into custody by the County Dog Warden or by any peace
officer and confined in the County Dog Pound and if not claimed by the owner
within ten days shall be disposed of by the County Dog Warden as he or she may
see fit.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 386-1983, passed 4-4-1983)
§ 90.25 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   (A)   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment
of all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
   (B)   The County Dog Warden shall be entitled to a fee of $10 for his or her
services in releasing any non-registered dog taken into custody to its owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 386-1983, passed 4-4-1983)
§ 90.99 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
   (D)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §§
90.21 and
90.23 through
90.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 386-1983, passed 4-4-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 436.600 and 525.130
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
State or Federal Maintained Roads
   
91.40   Maintenance agreements
Obstructions
   
91.50   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.51   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.52   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.53   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.54   Playing games upon, obstructing public ways prohibited
Streetlight Construction Regulations
   
91.65   General provisions
   
91.66   Previously approved development
   
91.67   Notice
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Specifications for city utilities and street improvements
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized city official
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and, if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor, for
a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall
for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by City
Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing, any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects and any other matter
related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations. The provisions of
this subchapter shall not apply to projects which are under construction as of
the effective date of this subchapter unless construction is suspended after
the effective date of this subchapter and the city desires to reactivate the
project.
(KRS 174.100(6)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
STATE OR FEDERAL MAINTAINED ROADS
§ 91.40 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the State Commissioner of Highways designates any streets or
portions thereof, including viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state
or federal maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto and thereby
undertakes the future maintenance, repair, construction or reconstruction of
the streets, bridges or viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid state
statutes, the Mayor of the city is hereby expressly authorized, instructed and
directed to enter into any and all contracts and agreements with the Department
of Highways necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of the state
statutes.
   (B)   If the Department of Highways constructs or reconstructs any street in
the city, the work shall be done by the Department as the agent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.25) (Ord. 164, passed 11-1-1955)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.50 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after
the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.54 PLAYING GAMES UPON, OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any game, kick or throw any
ball, stone, stick or other missile, whether by foot, hand, sling, bean-
shooter, air rifle or otherwise upon any street, or to obstruct any street, or
alley crossing in any manner, or for any number of persons to congregate at any
point upon any sidewalk in the town so as to hinder or interfere with the free
passage of pedestrians thereon.
(Prior Code, § 91.34) Penalty, see §
91.99
STREETLIGHT CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 91.65 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No street lighting shall be installed on public streets except in
compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   All developments currently under construction and to be constructed in
the future within the city limits shall include the construction of public
street lighting according to this subchapter. The location and type of light
fixtures shall be set forth on the subdivision improvement plans and meet the
approval of the County Planning Commission’s Engineer and be approved as part
of the County Planning Commissions approval of the improvement plans per § 3.6
of the county’s or city’s subdivision regulations, as amended.
   (C)   Street light locations shall be shown on all subdivision plats and
development plans as applicable.
   (D)   Prior to the approval of a final development plan or final development
plan or final subdivision plat, street lighting shall be installed pursuant to
this subchapter or bonded in an amount equal to the estimated cost of
installation plus 25%.
   (E)   In the event street light installation is bonded, the developer shall
have one year from the approval of the final development plan or final
subdivision plat or until the expiration of the bond for those public
improvements in which to install the street lighting.
   (F)   In developments with underground utilities, the developer shall be
responsible for the provisions of appropriate conduit installation and the
conduit installation shall be performed according to city’s specifications. The
developer shall be responsible for pulling the conductors through the conduit,
installation and maintenance of the lights, poles and fixtures.
   (G)   The city shall accept only two styles of light fixtures for public
financial responsibility and maintenance.
      (1)   Examples of styles accepted by the city are colonial post top and
cobra head, as provided by the servicing utility. The colonial post top is
available only for underground installation. The cobra head is available for
both underground and overhead installation.
      (2)   Any other style must receive prior written approval from the city.
Prior to the approval of the style change, street lighting shall be bonded in
an amount equal to the estimated cost of installation plus 25%. Approval of the
style shall be within the sole discretion of the city.
      (3)   No entitlement to any other style is granted by this provision.
Approval may be denied for any reason.
   (H)   Light fixtures shall be of LED type and meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Light fixtures for local streets and sub-collector streets shall be
5,800 lumens.
      (2)   Light fixtures for collector streets shall be 9,500 lumens.
      (3)   Light fixtures for arterial streets shall be 22,000 lumens.
      (4)   All intersections and within each cul-de-sac, regardless of the
category of streets, shall have a minimum of 9,500 lumens.
      (5)   These street classifications shall be determined according to the
definitions set out in the subdivision regulations.
   (I)   (1)   All light fixtures shall be spaced at intervals not to exceed
250 feet. The specific spacing for a particular installation shall be
determined by the anticipated coverage of the particular fixture level. This
spacing may be varied only with approval of the city.
      (2)   Different spacing may be required by the city in the event
circumstance exist which render the standard spacing inappropriate.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. 822-2016, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 PREVIOUSLY APPROVED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All developments for which a final development plan or final
subdivision plat have not been approved prior to the effective date of this
subchapter, but for which development no street lightning has been installed,
shall:
      (1)   Within 45 days of the effective date of this subchapter, submit to
the city and to the Planning and Zoning Commission a street lighting plan which
provides light fixtures locations, wattage levels and fixture style. Any plan
which includes a light fixtures styles other than permitted about shall also
provide documentation required in §
91.65(G)(1). No lighting-related construction shall begin prior to receipt of
written approval of a submitted lighting plan. The written approval must be
signed by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or its engineer.
      (2)   Within 60 days of receipt of approval of the street lighting plan
required in division (A)(1) above, install the light fixtures according to that
approved plan.
   (B)   In the event the developer fails to install the approved street
lighting plan within the time allotted in division (A)(2) above, the city may
grant an extension of time which to complete installation. No extension of time
shall be granted except upon a showing of the developer’s good-faith effort to
complete the installation and the posting of the developer’s bond in the
Planning and Zoning Office, in the amount of the cost of the installation of
the approved street lighting plan, plus 25%. This bond shall secure the cost of
the city’s installation of the approved street lighting plan in the event of
the developer’s failure to complete installation according to the plan within
the extension granted above. The city’s election to call the developer’s bond
and to undertake installation according to the approved plan shall not preclude
the filing of charges in the county district court seeking the penalties
provided herein.
   (C)   Lighting-related construction begun prior to the effective date of
this section and completed no later than 45 days after the effective date of
this subchapter shall not be affected by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Lighting-related construction begun prior to the effective date of
this subchapter, but not completed within 45 days after the effective date of
this subchapter, shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. 822-2016, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.67 NOTICE.
   (A)   All ordinances or portions thereof which may be in conflict with this
subchapter shall be, and the same hereby are, repealed.
   (B)   Following adoption of this chapter, a copy of same shall be forwarded
to the Planning and Zoning Office for enforcement according to its terms.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. 822-2016, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the
provisions of §§
91.65 and
91.66 shall be a misdemeanor; and each day a violation continues to exist shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
         (a)   Anyone convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of
$500 as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the maximum period of 12 months as set for in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
         (b)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for
each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation for
the violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of §§
91.65 and
91.66.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.65 through
91.67 for which there is no penalty specifically set forth shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 822-2016, passed 9-12-2016)
APPENDIX A: SPECIFICATIONS FOR CITY UTILITIES AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
1.   Adoption by reference
§ 1. ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts specifications for the city for utilities and street
improvements as contained in Attachment One of Ordinance 378. Attachment One is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as though fully set out herein.
From and after the date on which this section shall take effect the provisions
hereof shall be controlling in the construction of all utilities, streets and
street improvements within the corporate limits of the city.
(Old Code, § 620.5) (Ord. 378, passed 10-4-1982)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Nuisance created by others
   
92.05   Abatement procedure
   
92.06   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle or parts thereof which are left on public or
private property within the city under circumstances indicating a desertion,
relinquishment, non-use or divestment of the vehicle.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITY. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, structure or roadway, or any
utility related construction, for which all necessary and proper governmental
permits have been obtained.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCE. Every unlawful, unwarrantable, dangerous or
unreasonable use of property in such a way as to render the ground, air, water
or food a material annoyance, hazard or injury to human health, or which is
detrimental to the property of others, or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the property is located. The term shall include, but is not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   The keeping of waste, rubbish or abandoned appliances in such a
manner as can be seen from any public or private way or properties;
      (2)   The keeping, placing or storage outside of any building or dwelling
or any property owned or occupied by such person, or the keeping, placing or
storage in any place accessible to children of any abandoned, discarded icebox,
ice chest or refrigerator;
      (3)   Any weeds, grass or unlawful plant growth other than growing crops,
trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants at a height of six inches or
more on mowable lots, and at a height on unmowable lots which, in the
reasonable exercise of the City Council’s discretion, constitutes a hazard,
nuisance, unsightly condition or any condition adverse to the public’s health,
safety or welfare;
      (4)   The disposal or accumulation of any foul, decaying or putrescent
substances or other offensive materials dangerous to public health in or on any
lot, tract of land, street, highway or any sidewalk or alley abutting any of
these which shall by reason of offensive odors become injurious to the health
of any person;
      (5)   Any tree which is in danger of collapse or which poses a danger of
contamination because of disease, decay, injury, infestation or damage;
      (6)   All outbuildings that are or hereafter may become unsafe,
unsanitary, dilapidated, unkept or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to the public welfare;
      (7)   An abandoned or dangerous sign. An on-premises or off-premises sign
is deemed abandoned when a sign advertises any activity, business or service no
longer conducted or available on the premises referred to in the off-premises
business sign; and a temporary sign is deemed to be abandoned when the sign has
not been removed within ten days after the event advertised has taken place. A
sign is deemed dangerous when it becomes insecure, unsafe, dilapidated or in
danger of falling or collapsing, or when it constitutes a fire hazard or
otherwise endangers human life or the public welfare; or when it constitutes a
fire hazard or otherwise endangers human life or the public welfare; or when it
is deemed unsafe by reason of illegal or improper use or maintenance; and
      (8)   As used within divisions (1) through (7) of this definition, the
following words or terms shall have the following meanings.
         (a)   Under division (1) of this definition, WASTE shall mean ashes,
discarded wood, abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
furniture, appliances, cans or containers, garbage or refuse of any kind,
whether liquid or solid, or any accumulation of any foul, decaying or
putrescent substances.
         (b)   Under division (1) of this definition, RUBBISH shall mean any
combustible or noncombustible waste material, except garbage, including, but
not restricted to, paper, rags, boxes, cartons, wood excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter, glass,
crockery and the residue from the burning of combustible materials.
         (c)   Under division (3) of this definition, WEEDS shall mean any
noxious or unhealthy plant growth such as, but not limited to, jimpson,
burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or any other similar growth.
         (d)   Under division (5) of this definition, TREE/TREES shall mean a
woody perennial plant having a single, usually elongated main stem generally
with few or no branches on its lower part.
         (e)   Under division (7) of this definition, SIGN shall mean any
fabricated sign or outdoor display structure, including its structure,
consisting of any letter, figure, character, mark, trademark, reading matter or
illuminating device, constructed, attached, erected, fastened or manufactured
in any manner whatsoever so that it is used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public performance article,
machine or merchandise whatsoever, and displayed in any manner out-of-doors for
recognized advertising purposes.
   HIGHWAY. Any road, street, avenue, boulevard, lane, court or bridge, viaduct
or trestle and the approaches to them.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle or parts thereof which do not have lawfully
affixed thereto an unexpired license plate, which in the judgment of a
reasonably prudent person observing community standards is in one or more of
the following conditions: rusted, wrecked, partially dismantled or otherwise
nonfunctional. JUNKED VEHICLES may be deemed to include major parts thereof,
including, but not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions and rear ends.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NOISE. The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound or sounds
from a source or sources.
   NUISANCE. See PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately owned, and shall include, but
not be limited to, parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment centers,
car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether publicly or privately
owned, operated or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
      (3)   Substantially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others;
      (4)   Offend decency;
      (5)   Be offensive to the senses;
      (6)   Unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage; or
      (7)   In any way render other persons insecure in life or the use of
property.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the highway designed for ordinary use for vehicular
travel, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent thereto.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in it original form
and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining (excluding coal mining waste, coal mining by-
products, refuse and overburden) and agricultural operations, and from
community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in
domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for its originally
intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of want of repair, defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
   UNREASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME. A period of time in excess of that necessary to
accomplish:
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation or protection of property or the life, safety or
welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any noise plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a public highway, except vehicles moved by human power
or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE OWNER. Any individual, firm, corporation or unincorporated
association with a claim, either individual or joint, or ownership, or any
legal or equitable interest in a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses known to the common law and statutes of the state as public
nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided in
this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared prohibited and public nuisances.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by
owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another is prohibited and
constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. The erection, use or maintenance
of a dwelling which is unfit for human habitation is prohibited and constitutes
a public nuisance.
   (C)   Unsafe buildings. Any building or other structure which is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of the people residing
in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire
hazard in the vicinity where it is located is prohibited and constitutes a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Dangerous building adjoining streets. Any building, house or structure
so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is allowed to
continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property using or being on the streets or public ways of
the city adjoining the premises, by reason of, or the threat or likelihood of a
collapse of the building, house or structure, or by actual or threat of falling
of parts thereof or objects therefrom is prohibited and constitutes a public
nuisance.
   (E)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house or structure which is so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
fire or communicate fire, or which is due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect, endangers the public health, welfare or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property is prohibited and constitutes a public nuisance.
   (F)   Weeds and grass. The existence of thistles, burdock, jimpson weeds,
ragweeds, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and all other noxious
weeds of any height and grasses growing in excess of 12 inches in height are
prohibited and constitutes a public nuisance.
   (G)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of unlicensed motor
vehicles in an inoperable condition, or motor vehicles, whether licensed or
unlicensed, which are unfit for further use, automobile parts or scrap metal
within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city for such
purposes is prohibited and constitutes a public nuisance.
   (H)   Signs. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who
owns, uses or advertises on or upon an abandoned or dangerous sign to allow the
sign to remain on property owned, occupied, under the control of the person, or
under the putative claim of use or right of said person, or on any public or
private property, or located within a public or private right-of-way or
easement, all being prohibited and constituting a public nuisance.
   (I)   Illegal activity. Any building, structure or other place or location,
or activity where any such premises or activity is prohibited or is in
violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or maintained
is prohibited and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance
be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created or
contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Codes Enforcement Officer or
other responsible officer designated by the Mayor to serve or cause to be
served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which there is
kept or maintained any nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter
by:
         (a)   Personal service to the property;
         (b)   Leaving a copy of the violation notice with any person 18 years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the property owner or occupant is
not on the premises at the time the violation is issued;
         (c)   Mailing a copy of the violation notice by regular first class
mail to the last known recorded mailing address of the property owner and/or
occupant; or
         (d)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
violation notice using the method set out in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)
(c) above is not possible, then the violation notice is properly served by
posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the premises.
      (2)   Such notice shall give the owner or occupant five days to abate the
nuisance, unless such nuisance presents imminent danger, a serious threat to
the public health, safety and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate
action, the effects of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible, the
owner or occupant shall have 24 hours to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days
of notice where abatement hearing procedures are not required or invoked, then
the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and the expense shall be a charge and paid by the owner or
occupant.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8840, the property owner shall be afforded a public
hearing prior to the abatement of any nuisance and/or demolition of any unfit
or unsafe structure. Provided, however, that such hearing must be requested in
writing by the property owner themselves, a copy of which shall be served upon
the City Clerk/Treasurer not later than seven working days following receipt of
notice as set forth above. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall thereafter fix the
time and place for a hearing which shall be held not later than two weeks
thereafter, with notice of said hearing to be immediately provided to the
property owner. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members
of City Council as to the time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours
in advance thereof. The majority of the City Council members shall constitute a
quorum to hear the appeal. The property owner shall be present and shall be
heard following presentation to the Council of facts which necessitate
enforcement through this section by the Codes Enforcement Officer. The public
shall also be entitled to be heard on any matter which may tend to impact the
decision of the City Council. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of
the City Council present at the meeting declare in favor of the property owner,
such abatement shall not occur, and the Council shall make recommendations to
the property to abate the nuisance or make any building fit for human
habitation, occupancy or use. Should the majority of the members present at the
meeting decide that such abatement is necessary, demolition and/or other
abatement shall immediately occur.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the responsible officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to statute, and shall
be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and bear interest thereafter until paid.
The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, save
for state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceeding.
   (E)   Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered the City Clerk/Treasurer may file with the County Clerk’s office, a
statement of lien claims. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expanses and costs incurred, the date the nuisance was abated
and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the lien
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known.
However, failure to record the lien claim or mail the notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for charges. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest legal at the rate of 12% per annum until
paid.
   (F)   In addition to other claims or remedies set forth herein, the owner of
a property upon which a lien has been attached for nuisance abatement shall be
personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties and other charges, and the city may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt
owed.
   (G)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall
be sold for nonpayment, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as in the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. This foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the city.
   (H)   The City Attorney is authorized and empowered to institute proceedings
in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over the matter and
against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid after it has been
rendered.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009; Ord. 847-2018, passed
6-4-2018)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   At the direction of the Mayor, the City Attorney is authorized and empowered
to institute, on behalf of the city, common law nuisance abatement actions
against any person or properties which the city has determined to constitute a
nuisance; or the City Attorney may institute, on behalf of the city, a
declaratory judgment action for determination of whether a nuisance exists and
the methods by which the city may abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both fine and confinement,
for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 742-2009, passed 5-18-2009)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, FIREWORKS means any
composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible
effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets the
definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or
“display” fireworks as defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the
U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 16
C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as division 1.4 explosives by the
U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lower a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect or other noise is often produced. The
explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail
sale, provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect
thereto are met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) and (D) above are not
legal for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this
chapter for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may
be sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715)
(Prior Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of
individuals;
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person;
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (A), COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR
shall be defined as the person with overall responsibility for the operation
and safety of a fireworks display. The competent display operator shall have a
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) License and have
participated as an assistant in firing at least five public displays. A
“competent display operator” is also an employee possessor. A permit under
division (A)(1) above shall be issued only to a competent display operator
holding an ATF license;
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition);
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC
DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors;
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age; and
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A).
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as outlined
in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit along with
other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.04)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any Fire Department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or display
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 through 227.750 shall restrict a local
government from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks
within its jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit, may
require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other
persons against injury or damages which might result from the proposed
blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Application of regulations
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Exemptions
   
94.08   Interference with or intimidation of protected persons prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
94.20   Mayor to enforce
   
94.21   Educational and conciliatory activities
   
94.22   Complaint procedure
   
94.23   Investigations; authority to issue subpoenas to acquire evidence
   
94.24   Civil actions by private persons
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, sublease, let or otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
94.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided, that:
         (a)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in that house at the time of the sale or who was
not the most recent resident of that house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one sale within any
24-month period;
         (c)   The bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one
time; and
         (d)   The sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted
from the application of this chapter only if the house is sold or rented
without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or
rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or of
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent, salesperson or
other person; and without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies or other professional assistance as is necessary
to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and 94.07, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, refuse
to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny a
dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, disability or national
origin;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, disability or
national origin;
   (C)   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published, any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, disability or national origin, or an intention to make
any such preference, limitation or discrimination; or
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, disability
or national origin, that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose
business consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate
loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of
the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of the loan or
other financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion, disability or
national origin of such person or of any person associated with him or her in
connection with the loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the
loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners,
lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which
the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in §
94.03(B).
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or any other service, organization or facility relating to the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the
terms or conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, disability or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color, disability
or national origin.
   (B)   Further, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provided lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 INTERFERENCE WITH OR INTIMIDATION OF PROTECTED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with
any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected
by §§
94.03 through
94.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
   (B)   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates, interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following persons, shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
94.99:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, disability
or national origin and because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying, contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings;
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to
intimidate the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, disability or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (B)(1) above; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so as to participate.
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, disability or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (B)(1) above or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
(Prior Code, § 95.08) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. 419-1987, passed 7-
6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.20 MAYOR TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of employees, including functions, duties
and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining,
ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or
matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall by rule prescribe the rights of
appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing
examiners or to other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself
or herself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner so as to
affirmatively further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the
Mayor to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.21 EDUCATIONAL AND CONCILIATORY ACTIVITIES.
   The Mayor shall institute educational and conciliatory activities as will
further the purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of
persons in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them
with the provisions of this chapter, and his or her suggested means of
implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of
voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.22 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter PERSON
AGGRIEVED) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain the information and be in the form as the Mayor requires.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of
the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to
commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
      (2)   Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after
the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the Mayor
shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person
aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor decides to
resolve the complaint, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct
the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of the informal
endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding
under this chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and, with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the Mayor
has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person
aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer
will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter,
commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in the practice or order
affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 INVESTIGATIONS; AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SUBPOENAS TO ACQUIRE EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy the
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation. However, the
Mayor shall first comply with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating
to unreasonable search and seizure. The Mayor may issue subpoenas to compel
access to or the production of materials, or the appearance of persons, and may
issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued
or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer
oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they
were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, person
may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall grant
the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous or for any other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.23) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 CIVIL ACTIONS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
94.03 through
94.06 may be enforced by civil action in state courts of general jurisdiction.
A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the court
shall continue a civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
94.22(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of or in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior
to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this chapter
and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant, without actual
notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the
provisions of this chapter, shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff, provided the plaintiff, in the opinion of the court,
is not financially able to assume the attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 95.24) (Ord. 418-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify to or
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Mayor pursuant to §
94.23 of this chapter shall be liable to the city for a civil penalty of not
more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
   (B)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Mayor, shall make
or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify and documentary evidence, shall be liable to the city for a civil
penalty of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment not more than one year or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
94.08(B) shall be liable to the city for a civil penalty of not more than
$1,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both; and if bodily
injury results shall be liable to the city for a civil penalty of not more than
$10,000, or imprisonment for not more than ten years or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment of any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 419-1987, passed 7-6-1987)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Rules and regulations for use of park areas
   
95.02   Exemptions
   
95.03   Liability of parents when juvenile defaces park area
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PARK AREAS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the public’s use of any
park areas located within the city limits.
   (A)   No bicycles shall be permitted in the park area.
   (B)   No motorized vehicles shall be permitted in the park area.
   (C)   No glass containers shall be permitted in the park area.
   (D)   No alcoholic beverages shall be permitted in the park area.
   (E)   No one shall be permitted to climb any fences or buildings located in
the park area.
   (F)   There shall be no swimming in the lake located in the park area.
   (G)   There shall be no ice skating on any lake located in the park area.
   (H)   No one shall be allowed to be on the lake when the lake is frozen.
   (I)   No boats shall be permitted on the lake which is located on park
property.
   (J)   No one shall be on the ball field located in the park when his or her
presence on the ball field after a rain would damage the condition of the
field.
   (K)   All pets shall be required to be on a leash, lead, tender or
restraint.
   (L)   No sledding, skiing or snowboarding shall be permitted in the park.
   (M)   No use or operation of a wind-powered, foot-powered, pedal-powered or
motorized wagon, scooter, unicycle, bicycle, tricycle or other vehicle shall be
permitted in the park.
   (N)   No skateboarding, roller skating, in-line skating, unicycling,
bicycling, tricycling or scootering shall be allowed or permitted within the
park except for same’s use upon, within or in context with the uses allowed and
proper of the skateboarding facility/event within the park area complex.
   (O)   No one shall be allowed in the park after 12:00 a.m. unless express
written or oral consent by a representative of the city has been given in
advance.
   (P)   All persons using the park shall be responsible for cleaning up
afterwards of any and all garbage, trash, debris and the like which they caused
to be located on park property.
   (Q)   These rules and regulations stated in divisions (A) through (L) above
are in addition to all state and federal laws now in existence.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 403-1986, passed 4-14-1986; Ord. 704-2007, passed
1-8-2007; Ord. 911-2024, passed 12-16-2024) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The rules and regulations set out in §
95.01 apply to all persons using the public parks in the county within the city
limits with the following exceptions:
   (A)   The city police or any other police force or agency acting pursuant to
police activity;
   (B)   The city maintenance workers acting in the scope of their employment;
   (C)   All persons acting pursuant to an emergency; and
   (D)   Any other persons granted specific permission from the city through
one of its representatives to act in a certain manner which conflicts with the
rules and regulations set out in §
95.01 above.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 403-1986, passed 4-14-1986; Ord. 911-2024, passed
12-16-2024)
§ 95.03 LIABILITY OF PARENTS WHEN JUVENILE DEFACES PARK AREA.
   In the event that a juvenile defaces or destroys park property, he or she
shall be subject to the fine reflected in §
95.99, and, in addition thereto, his or her parents and/or legal guardian shall
be subject to a fine and be responsible for restitution or repair for the
damage or defacing of park property.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 403-1986, passed 4-14-1986; Ord. 911-2024, passed
12-16-2024) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the regulations put forth in §
95.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 403-1986, passed 4-14-1986; Ord. 911-2024, passed
12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
911 Emergency Telephone Service
   
96.01   Establishment
   
96.02   Funding of service
   
96.03   Day-to-day operations of service; interlocal agreement
Emergency Services Regulations
   
96.15   Fees and charges for services
   
96.16   Fire Department ambulance service charges
Public Safety Emergency Access System
   
96.30   Definitions
   
96.31   Required installation
   
96.32   Quantity
   
96.33   Placement and installation
   
96.34   Contents
   
96.35   Required maintenance
   
96.36   Optional applicability
   
96.37   Compliance
   
96.38   Enforcement
Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
96.50   Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
 
   
96.99   Penalty
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be established within the incorporated limits of the city, a 911
emergency telephone service.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) (Ord. 486-1992, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 96.02 FUNDING OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Funds necessary for the establishment and continuing operation of the
service shall be derived from charges to be collected from local exchange
telephone subscribers in the area to be served by the 911 emergency telephone
service on an individual exchange line basis limited to a maximum of 25 lines
per account.
   (B)   All revenues from a tax or fee expressly levied to fund 911 emergency
telephone services shall be expended solely for the funding and operating the
911 emergency telephone service and for no other purpose.
   (C)   Any participating governmental unit or legislative body may apply for
and so accept federal monies and any contributions or donations made from any
source legal for the purpose of funding and operating the 911 emergency
telephone service.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. 486-1992, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 96.03 DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS OF SERVICE; INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The actual day-to-day operations of 911 services shall be governed by
any and all controlling laws and regulations of the state and the United States
together with the provisions of any interlocal agreement forthcoming and
entered into by the city and any other governmental unit or legislative body
concerning the 911 emergency telephone service.
   (B)   Any forthcoming interlocal agreement necessary and referred to herein
must be approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 486-1992, passed 9-14-1992)
EMERGENCY SERVICES REGULATIONS
§ 96.15 FEES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   The city shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery of emergency
and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel, supplies and
equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents as listed
below. The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services and
that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown below, which may
include any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and with baselines
established by addendum to this document.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party through his, her or
their insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party will be
billed directly.
   (C)   The City Council may make rules or regulations and from time to time
may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this
section, as it may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for these
mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
Back Country or Special Rescue
             Each incident will be billed with custom mitigation rates deemed usual,
             customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed, itemized per
Itemized     apparatus per hour, per trained rescue person per hour, plus rescue products
response:    used.
             Minimum billed $400 for the first response vehicle plus $50 per rescue person.
             Additional rates of $400 per hour per response vehicle and $50 per hour per
             rescue person.
Equipment Damage
Bunker coat
and/or pants  Cost based on new equipment purchase.
(PPE):
Fire boots:   Cost based on new equipment purchase.
Fire gloves:  Cost based on new equipment purchase.
Fire helmet:  Cost based on new equipment purchase.
Fire hoods:   Cost based on new equipment purchase.
Portable
radio         Cost based on new equipment purchase.
equipment:
False Alarm Billing Rates
The first false alarms within 12 months in a calendar year is free of charge.
The second false alarm in a 12-month calendar year is billed at $100.
The third false alarm in a 12-month calendar year is billed at $200.
The fourth through sixth false alarms in a 12-month calendar year are billed at $300 per
event not to exceed $500 per calendar day.
False Alarm Billing Rates
False alarms will be billed at the discretion of the Chief or designee, not by how the
incident is coded into the Records Management Software.
Fire Investigation
Fire
Investigation
Team -
   Fire
report
   Identification
equipment
   Investigation
   K-9/arson275 per hour.
dog unit
   Mobile
detection
unit
   Scene
safety
   Source
identification
The claim begins when the Fire Investigator responds to the incident and is billed for
logged time only.
Fires
Assignment
   Fire/
hazard
control       $400 per hour, per engine.
   Investigation
   Scene
safety
This will be the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost every time the Fire
Department responds to an incident.
Hazmat
Level 1 -    Basic response: claim will include engine response, first responder
$700         assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command.
Additional time on-scene (for all levels of service)
   Engine billed at $400 per hour.
   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
   Truck billed at $500 per hour.
Illegal Fires
Assignment - $400 per hour, per engine/$500 per hour, per truck. When a fire is started by
any person or persons that requires a Fire Department response during a time or season when
fires are regulated or controlled by local or state rules, provisions or ordinances because
of pollution or fire danger concerns, such person or persons will be liable for the Fire
Department response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the Fire
Department to respond and contain the fire. Similarly, if a fire is started where permits
are required for such a fire and the permit was not obtained and the Fire Department is
required to respond to contain the fire the responsible party will be liable for the
response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the Fire Department. The
actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs and any other costs that can be
reasonably allocated to the cost of the response.
Incident Report
Copy of NFIRS incident report will be billed at $20.
Late Fees
If the invoice is not paid within 90 days, a late charge of 10% of the invoice, as well as
1.5% per month, as well as the actual cost of the collections, will be accessed to the
responsible party.
Miscellaneous/additional Time On-scene
Engine billed at $400 per hour.
Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
Truck billed at $500 per hour.
Mitigation Rate Notes
The mitigation rates above are average “billing levels,” and are typical for the incident
responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be itemized and based on the
actual services provided.
These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing costs for a typical run (from
the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it returns to the station) and are based
on the actual costs, using amortized schedules for apparatus (including useful life,
equipment, repairs and maintenance) and labor rates (an average department’s “actual
personnel expense” and not just a firefighter’s basic wage). The actual personnel expense
includes costs such as wages, retirement, benefits, workers’ compensation, insurance and
the like.
Motor Vehicle Incidents
Level 1 -    Provide hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization. This will be
$435         the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost every time the Fire
             Department responds to an accident/incident.
             Includes Level 1 services as well as clean up and material used (sorbents) for
Level 2 -    hazardous fluid clean up and disposal. We will bill at this level if the Fire
$435         Department has to clean up any gasoline or other automotive fluids that are
             spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
Level 3 -    Provide scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand
CAR FIRE -   tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection and clean up gasoline or
$605         other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
Motor Vehicle Incidents
             Includes Level 1 & 2 services as well as extrication (heavy rescue tools,
             ropes, airbags, cribbing and the like). We will bill at this level if the Fire
Level 4 -    Department has to free/remove anyone from the vehicle(s) using any equipment.
$1,800       We will not bill at this level if the patient is simply unconscious and Fire
             Department is able to open the door to access the patient. This level is to be
             billed only if equipment is deployed.
Level 5 -    Includes Levels 1, 2 & 4 services as well as Air Care (multi-engine company
$2,200       response, mutual aid, helicopter). We will bill at this level any time a
             helicopter is utilized to transport the patient(s).
Additional time on-scene
   Engine billed at $400 per hour.
   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300.
   Truck billed at $500 per hour.
Water Incidents
             Claim will include engine response, first responder assignment, perimeter
Level 1      establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command, scene safety
Basic        and investigation (including possible patient contact, hazard control). This
response:    will be the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost every time the
             Fire Department responds to a water incident.
             Billed at $400 plus $50 per hour, per rescue person.
             Includes Level 1 services as well as dean up and material used (sorbents),
Level 2      minor hazardous clean up and disposal. We will bill at this level if the Fire
Intermediate Department has to clean up small amounts of gasoline or other fluids that are
response:    spilled as a result of the incident.
             Billed at $800 plus $50 per hour, per rescue person.
 
(Prior Code, § 98.10) (Ord. 787-2014, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 96.16 FIRE DEPARTMENT AMBULANCE SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following rates and charges for ambulance services shall apply to the
ambulance service operated by the city, effective with the date of the most up
to date ordinance, with such listed service rates being increased by 5% on
January 1 of each successive year beginning January 1, 2024.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Finance or delegate shall collect fees for life
support services, whenever transportation is furnished by the emergency medical
treatment unit of the division of fire and emergency services, as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Basic life support; non-emergency (per patient, per trip):
$795 for response, evaluation and transport. BLS services include those as
defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint; and
         (b)   These services include care provided by certified or licensed
emergency medical personnel at the EMT-B level where the response is not
initiated as an emergency.
      (2)   Base life support; emergency (per patient, per trip): $958 for
response, evaluation and transport. BLS-Emergency services include those
defined in the National RMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These services
include care provided by certified or licensed emergency medical personnel at
the EMT-B level or higher where the response is initiated as an emergency;
      (3)   Advanced life support; non-emergency (per patient, per trip): $995
for response, evaluation and transport. ALS services include those defined in
the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These services include
assessment and care provided by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level where the response is not initiated as an
emergency;
      (4)   Advanced life support; Level 1 emergency (per patient, per trip):
$1,295 for response, evaluation and transport. ALS-Level 1 emergency services
include those defined in the National EMS Educational and Practice Blueprint.
These services include assessment by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level and the furnishing of one or more ALS
interventions where the response is initiated as an emergency;
      (5)   Advanced life support; Level 2 emergency (per patient, per trip):
$1,495 for response, evaluation and transport. ALS-Level 2 services include
those as defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These
services include assessment by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level and the administration of at least three
different and/or the provision of one or more of the following ALS procedures:
         (a)   Manual defibrillation/cardioversion;
         (b)   Endotracheal intubation;
         (c)   Central venous line;
         (d)   Cardiac pacing;
         (e)   Chest decompression;
         (f)   Surgical airway; and
         (g)   Introsseous line.
      (6)   Specialty care transport (SCT) (per patient, per trip): $1,595 for
response, evaluation and transport. Specialty care transport services include
those as defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. Hospital
to hospital transportation of a critically injured or ill beneficiary by a
ground ambulance vehicle, including the provision of medically necessary
supplies and services, at a level of service beyond the scope of the EMT-
paramedic. SCT is necessary when a beneficiary’s condition requires ongoing
care that must be furnished by one or more health professionals in an
appropriate specialty area, for example, emergency or critical care nursing,
emergency medicine, respiratory care, cardiovascular care or a paramedic with
additional training.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Finance shall collect a fee of $17.95 per mile of
patient transportation furnished by the emergency medical treatment unit of the
division of fire and emergency services.
DRY RIDGE FIRE DEPARTMENT AND EMS 2023 RATE SCHEDULE
HCPCS Code Description Unit Price
DRY RIDGE FIRE DEPARTMENT AND EMS 2023 RATE SCHEDULE
HCPCS Code Description                  Unit Price
     ALS 2, no transport          $495
     ALS 1, no transport          $395
A0425      Mileage                      $17.95
A0426      Base rate, ALS 1             $995
A0427      Base rate, ALS 1, E-response $1,295
A0428      Base rate, BLS               $795
A0429      Base rate, BLS, E-response   $958
A0433      Base rate, ALS 2             $1,495
A0434      Base rate, specialty care    $1,595
 
   (C)   Five refusals of service in any one calendar year shall cause a $100
nuisance fee.
(Prior Code, § 98.11) (Ord. 709-2007, passed 3-19-2007; Ord. 737-2008, passed
12-1-2008; Ord. 895-2023, passed 4-17-2023)
PUBLIC SAFETY EMERGENCY ACCESS SYSTEM
§ 96.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Dry Ridge.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any building or property in the city used or designated
for commercial, industrial or multi-family purpose except as follows: multi-
family residential complexes which do not have locked doors or gates which
protect a common corridor or other means of providing access to the living
units.
   ELECTRONIC SWITCH. A switch that is compatible with Knox Hardware, which is
used to control access to electronic gates, doors and the like.
   EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A commercial building or multi-family
residential complex issued a certificate of occupancy before September 18,
2017.
   FENCE PERMIT. A new fence permit that is issued for gates that are
electronically controlled after September 18, 2017.
   KEY BOX. Knox Box products that hold keys, access cards and/or codes.
   KNOX HARDWARE. Products that are available from the Knox Box Company.
   MULTI-FAMILY. A residential structure with three or more living units which
access to the building, common areas, mechanical room and/or electrical rooms
within the building are denied through locked doors.
   MULTI-UNIT COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A structure with three or more separate
units that are contained within one building.
   NEW COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A commercial building or multi-family residential
complex issued a certificate of occupancy after September 18, 2017.
   OWNER. Person on record with the County Property Valuation Administration as
the owner of the property.
   PADLOCK. Any padlock that is compatible with the Knox Hardware system.
   PSEAS. Public Safety Emergency Access System.
   REMODELED COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A commercial structure being remodeled
pursuant to a building permit issued after September 18, 2017.
   TENANT. Person having a possessory or proprietary interest in the property.
(Prior Code, § 98.25) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.31 REQUIRED INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Required key box installation are as follows:
      (1)   New commercial structures;
      (2)   New multi-family structures; and
      (3)   Existing properties: when requirements are met in the definition of
NEW COMMERCIAL BUILDING in §
96.30.
   (B)   Required electronic switch installation are as follows: any property
that has a fence permit issued for electronically gated vehicle access shall be
equipped with an electronic switch to allow immediate emergency access through
the gate.
   (C)   Padlocks are required as follows:
      (1)   Any property that has gated vehicle access or gates that are
manually opened and closed. Only required if such gate is locked;
      (2)   The padlock will be in addition to and locked thought the shackle
of a lock that the owner uses to secure the property; and
      (3)   The city is not responsible if lock or chain is cut/damaged due to
improper locking.
(Prior Code, § 98.26) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.32 QUANTITY.
   (A)   Key box.
      (1)   Generally one key box is appropriate for a structure or complex
where multiple small buildings of a commercial property are in close proximity
(see § 96.33(A)(1)(a) for further definition).
      (2)   Multiple pieces of Knox Hardware shall be necessary for larger
complexes that have multiple entrances. Where factors suggest multiple pieces
of Knox Hardware are required or alternate locations are appropriate, the
Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or the Fire Chief or designee will
specify those locations.
   (B)   Electronic switch. The quantity of electronic switches will be based
on the number of gates to the property and size of secured location. Number
will be determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or the Fire
Chief or designee.
   (C)   Padlock. The quantity of padlocks will be based on the number of
similar such locks that are used at the property. The number will be determined
by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or the Fire Chief or designee.
(Prior Code, § 98.27) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.33 PLACEMENT AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Key box.
      (1)   The key box shall be placed within six feet (72 inches) of main
entrance on address side of building. If placement is at a multi-unit
commercial building a single key box can be placed in such a manner that it
will allow access to units within 20 feet (240 inches) of the key box.
      (2)   The key box shall be installed at a height of 48 inches to 72
inches above the finished grade and in a manner that shall always be visible
and accessible.
   (B)   Electronic switch.
      (1)   The electronic switch shall be placed within ten feet (120 inches)
of what it controls.
      (2)   The electronic switch shall be installed at a height of 48 inches
to 72 inches above the finished grade and in a manner that shall always be
visible and accessible.
   (C)   Padlock.
      (1)   The padlock shall be placed on any locked gate that may need to be
accessed by emergency personnel.
      (2)   The padlock shall be locked shackle to shackle with an existing
lock of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 98.28) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.34 CONTENTS.
   Each key box on property shall contain a properly labeled key or keys which
will allow access to any part of the property that may need to be accessed
during an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 98.29) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.35 REQUIRED MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   City staff shall once a year visit each property with this equipment
to assure that all is in working order.
   (B)   The owner/operator of a structure which this subchapter requires
installation of items described shall permanently maintain the items as long as
the structure and/or use meets the criteria set forth.
   (C)   Maintenance shall include, but is not limited to, replacement of
contents in a key box any time locks are changed or re-keyed and/or access
codes are changed.
   (D)   To fulfill a maintenance request, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator will need to be contacted to schedule a time.
(Prior Code, § 98.30) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.36 OPTIONAL APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Owners or occupants of residential dwellings and townhouse units may
utilize the PSEAS upon consultation and with approval of the Planning and
Zoning Administrator and/or Fire Chief or designee.
   (B)   If an owner or occupant uses Knox Hardware they shall be required to
fulfill the required maintenance set forth in §
96.35, with the exception of §
96.35(B).
(Prior Code, § 98.31) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.37 COMPLIANCE.
   Existing occupied structures at the adoption of this subchapter are not
required but highly encouraged to install Knox Hardware.
(Prior Code, § 98.32) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 96.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or
Fire Chief or designee to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the enforcement staff, upon finding a
violation of this subchapter, to send the owner/occupant a letter stating the
violation, the time frame to remedy and penalties, if not done so within time
given.
   (C)   In the alternate, a written notification may be given to the owner/
occupants of the property.
(Prior Code, § 98.33) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
§ 96.50 NORTHERN KENTUCKY REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The City Council hereby adopts the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan, 2024. While content related to the city may require revisions
to meet the plan approval requirements, changes occurring after adoption will
not require the city to re-adopt any further iterations of the plan. Subsequent
plan updates following the approval period for this plan will require separate
adoption resolutions.
(Res. 2024-01, passed 2-26-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §§
96.30 through
96.38 shall be punishable by a civil fine of not less than $50 per violation,
plus cost of legal fees.
      (2)   Each day or part thereof shall constitute a separate violation of
§§
96.30 through
96.38.
      (3)   The date of violation will start when found and continue until the
violation has been remedied.
(Prior Code, § 98.99) (Ord. 838-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES
      
115.   YARD AND GARAGE SALES
      
116.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS; FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
117.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
118.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
119.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
      
120.   ECONOMIC INCENTIVES FOR BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License application procedure
   
110.04   License taxes established
   
110.05   Apportionment of gross receipts
   
110.06   Duplicate licenses
   
110.07   Annual renewal of licenses
   
110.08   Revocation of license
   
110.09   Effective date
   
110.10   Applicability of federal law
   
110.11   Cessation of business
   
110.12   Use of federal tax year
   
110.13   Due date of return, copy of federal return
   
110.14   Extensions
   
110.15   Tax due when return filed
   
110.16   Audits
   
110.17   Enforcement
   
110.18   Validity of license
   
110.19   Miscellaneous provisions
   
110.20   Cannabis business operations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, employment,
business or profession (which terms are hereinafter collectively called
“business”) hereinafter specified, shall be required to obtain the occupational
license and pay a license tax therefor herein provided, prior to beginning to
engage in the business and thereafter, on or before the fifteenth day of the
fourth month following the end of the taxable year of the business entity.
   (B)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have
the license year for which they are issued written on the face of the license
in large figures, and it shall be the duty of each person to whom a license is
issued to keep the license or a duplicate thereof as herein provided for,
posted in a conspicuous place in his or her place of business, where it will be
at all times exposed to the public view. Any person holding a business license
under this chapter hall present said license upon request by the Codes
Enforcement Office, City Police Department, Mayor and/or City Attorney, any
city representative. Failure to produce said license may result in a fine up to
$100.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall authorize any person to
engage in any business other than the one for which the license was issued,
unless transferred by the City Clerk/Treasurer as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   Where, under any ordinance, statute or law, a special form of
application is required or bond demanded prior to entering into any business
for which a license is applied for under the provisions of this chapter, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue the license hereunder until such special
application has been made or such bond properly executed.
   (E)   The following entities are specifically exempt. Exemption from the fee
means a business license must be obtained, but with no fee:
      (1)   Nonprofit entities as designated as such by the federal tax code;
      (2)   Any governmental entity or agency;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Minors, 17 and under (this exemption is void if minor uses
commercial transportation); and
      (6)   Any other entity where the imposition of such tax would violate a
provision of the state statutes or federal law.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the advertisement of any person or
entity that he or she is engaged in any business, for which a license is
required, shall be conclusive evidence that such a license is required by under
this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A classification meaning all services, activities, occupations,
vocation, pursuits, trades, callings or professions located and/or performed
within the city with the object of pecuniary gain, benefit or advantage to the
person, or to another person or class, directly or indirectly, whether part-
time or full-time. This definition includes, without limitation, home
occupations, peddlers and the rental of commercial and residential real
property. It also includes the activities of businesses that are located
outside the city where sales or services are performed by the physical presence
of business representatives inside the city, including, but not limited to,
those itemized classifications set forth and established in the 2012 NAICS
Codes, along with all subsequently adopted amendments and modifications
thereto.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service organization or other legal entity through which business
is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Dry Ridge, Kentucky, its government, representatives,
authorized agents, successors and assigns.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commission or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. As defined in I.R.C. § 3401(d).
   FISCAL YEAR. As defined in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(24).
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease or
rental of goods, services or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2004, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2005, that would
otherwise terminate.
   OFFENDING PARTY. A person who has received a citation for a violation of
this chapter.
   PERSON. One or more human beings of either sex, or an entity that is
recognized by law as having the rights and duties of a human being such as a
corporation, company, partnership, association, trust, joint venture or other
entity capable of maintaining a legal action and/or having a legal action
brought against it, as authorized under the laws of the state, however, shall
not include employees of persons licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX. As used in this chapter and LICENSE FEE, LICENSE TAX and OCCUPATIONAL
LICENSE FEE as used in other city ordinances dealing with the occupational
license tax or fee of the city, shall have the same meaning as is afforded to
the term TAX in KRS 67.750 through 67.790.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city, means gross receipts as defined in this section,
as apportioned under KRS 67.753.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
in the city, means gross receipts as defined in this section.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which gross receipts is computed.
   TAX DISTRICT. The city, county, urban-county, charter county, consolidated
local government, school district, special taxing district or any other
statutorily created entity with the authority to levy net profits, gross
receipts or occupational license taxes.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall submit an application for such license in writing to the
City Clerk/Treasurer on forms provided by the city.
   (B)   No license shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter unless
the business is in good standing with the city, including, but not limited to,
being current on all taxes, levies, fees, assessments and/or licenses which may
be due or owed; and being in compliance with all planning and zoning and other
applicable city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.04 LICENSE TAXES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Every business entity engaged in any business in the city shall, at
the time the license herein required is obtained, pay the annual license tax on
the taxable gross receipts derived from such activity as herein computed.
   (B)   Every business entity shall compute and pay said license tax in the
same form of business entity (i.e., corporation, partnership and the like) as
they report income to the federal government.
   (C)   The license tax shall be computed and is hereby levied in the amount
of 0.05% of taxable gross receipts with a minimum license tax of $40 per year
and maximum license tax of $1,000 per year.
   (D)   The license tax for each license year shall be computed based upon the
income shown on the last federal income tax return filed by the business entity
liable for the license tax prior to the license year for which the license is
obtained. A new business, defined as one which has not yet filed a federal
income tax return with respect to income from business operations in the city,
shall estimate license fee based on projected first year income at the time of
obtaining the occupational license and upon filing its first federal income tax
return shall report the applicable amount of income therefrom to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and either pay an additional fee or receive a corresponding
credit for the first license year equal to the difference between the estimated
fee paid and the fee which would have been paid had the amount of such income
been known at the time the license for the first year was obtained. If an
underpayment occurs, then penalty and interest shall be assessed on the amount
of the difference if the licensee underestimates more than 50%.
   (E)   The license tax as computed and levied in division (D) above shall
become effective for the license period beginning July 1, 2017, and shall apply
to all new licenses and renewals of licenses.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E) below, gross receipts
shall be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the FOB point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   (1)   In lieu of completing the calculations as outlined within this
section and in lieu of providing the necessary documents in support of same, a
business entity may, at its sole option, tender to the city the maximum fee as
defined within this chapter.
      (2)   A business entity electing this option remains bound by all other
provisions contained within this chapter. Specifically, an application must be
completed and submitted and the required fee remitted prior to the applicable
deadline(s) and said entity remains subject to all applicable penalties.
      (3)   Once a business entity has elected this option and submitted the
required application and fee for a given year, said election shall be
irrevocable for said year and the business entity so electing shall not be
entitled to refund.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 835-2017, passed
9-5-2017)
§ 110.06 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
    In order for any person, company, partnership or corporation, which
conducts business in the city at more than one location, to comply with that
portion of §
110.01, which requires the license to be posted at a conspicuous place in the
place of business, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a duplicate of the
license to such person, company, partnership or corporation for each such
additional location. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall charge each such person,
company, partnership or corporation a fee of $25 for each duplicate license so
issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.07 ANNUAL RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   The application and review of application provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to annual renewal of licenses issued hereunder unless there is a
material change in the ownership of, location of or type of business conducted
by a business for which a license is issued hereunder; or unless the license
holder is indebted to the city for delinquent taxes, assessments, payroll
withholding, fines or similar obligations. In the event of such a material
change or indebtedness, the license-holder must file an application and same
must be approved as herein provided prior to such renewal.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the City Council, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional license; and/or
      (3)   The criminal conviction of any of the persons listed as the owners,
partners, sole proprietor of a felony; a misdemeanor for which a jail sentence
may be imposed; any other crime in which moral turpitude is involved; or any
other crime which directly relates to a business of the type for which the
license was issued. Provided, however, that in making the decision, the City
Council shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the individual
was convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of regulating the
business for which the license was issued;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business for which the license was issued; and
         (d)   The extent to which the individual has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (4)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document, under the
provisions of any applicable city ordinance, county ordinance or state or
federal laws, which is a legal prerequisite to the conduct of or employment in
the business for which application is made for the license hereunder, which was
issued to or held by any of the persons described as the owners, or any
employee of the business for which the license was issued.
      (5)   The conduct, by the owner or any employee, of the business for
which the license was issued in an unlawful manner.
      (6)   Permitting or allowing the premises on which the business for which
the license was issued are located or the premises adjacent thereto under the
control of the license-holder, to be used for any unlawful purpose or in an
unlawful manner.
   (B)   The City Council shall hold a hearing on the question of revocation or
suspension of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter. The
Mayor shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall notify the affected
license-holder in writing, by certified mail or personal service, of the time
and place of said hearing not less than ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing. Such written notice shall set forth specifically the grounds alleged
for the revocation or suspension and shall inform the license-holder that the
hearing may result in the revocation or suspension of the license. The order of
the City Council on such revocation or suspension shall be final.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension of a license hereunder shall be in addition
to the imposition of any other penalty prescribed by this chapter or any other
ordinance, statute or law.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be effective March 1, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.10 APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL LAW.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, computations of gross income and
deductions therefrom, gross receipts or sales and deductions therefrom,
accounting methods and accounting procedures shall be as nearly as practicable
identical with those required for federal income tax purposes.
   (B)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (C)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of noting an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.11 CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   If any business entity dissolves or withdraws from the city during any
taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner surrenders or loses its
charter during any taxable year, the dissolution, withdrawal or loss or
surrender of charter shall not defeat the filing of returns and the assessment
and collection of gross receipts taxes or tax withheld for the period of that
taxable year during which the business entity had gross receipts or tax
withheld in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.12 USE OF FEDERAL TAX YEAR.
   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income tax
return, the gross receipts shall be computed for the purposes of this chapter
on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the federal
government and shall employ the same methods of accounting required for federal
income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.13 DUE DATE OF RETURN, COPY OF FEDERAL RETURN.
   (A)   All business entities’ returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 in each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall me made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing its return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion
of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business
entity to produce for inspection a copy of all statements and schedules in
support thereof. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments
made by the federal government.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 EXTENSIONS.
   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than six
months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the tax, requests the extension and pays the amount properly estimated as its
tax. If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Prior Code, § 110.14) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.15 TAX DUE WHEN RETURN FILED.
   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as appears
from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time prescribed
for filing the tax return, determined without regard to any extension of time
for filing the return.
(Prior Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by
the Internal Revenue Service to net income or gross receipts as reported on the
business entity’s federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
      FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and appealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   (B)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit it. If the amount of tax computed by the city is greater than
the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax shall be
assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by the city
within five years from the date the return was filed, except as otherwise
provided in this division (B).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates gross
receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts, or both,
which understatement or omission or both is in excess of 25% of the amount of
gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any
time within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this section, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this division (B) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (B), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (C)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (D)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 110.16) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Codes Enforcement Office, City Police
Department, designated city representative, Mayor and/or City Attorney to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the enforcement staff upon his or her learning
that any person, firm or corporation required by this chapter to pay any
license tax, has not paid same, to send to that person, firm or corporation a
letter stating that said license is due and identify any applicable penalties.
   (C)   In the alternate, a written notification may be issued to a violator
of the provisions of this chapter if the enforcement staff finds a business
actively engaged in work within the city limits that has failed to obtain a
license. This notice shall include the time and location of the offending work
along with a notice to cease all work until a license is obtained. If the
violator fails to cease work, the violator shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not longer than six months, or both.
(Prior Code, § 110.17) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.18 VALIDITY OF LICENSE.
   A business license shall only be valid when issued from the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer and stamped with the city seal.
(Prior Code, § 110.18) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.19 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All revenue received for the payment of license taxes and penalties
shall be paid into and shall become part of the General Fund of the city to be
used for general operating expenses of the city.
   (B)   The different sections and items of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable and is the intention of the City Council that if any portion of
this chapter be held invalid then the remaining portions are to be and to
remain in full force.
   (C)   Each license shall be specific to the person and/or entity seeking to
conduct business within the city. No such licenses shall be transferrable or
assignable. In the event a business is sold or transferred, the license issued
to previous owner shall expire on the date of such sale or transfer. The owner
shall apply for and obtain a new license prior to initiating business.
   (D)   For matters of transition from the current process to this provisions
of this chapter:
      (1)   Business entities with a fiscal year ending between October 31 and
March 31 will have their license renewed in July 2017 and effective until the
fourth month following the close of the next fiscal year; and
      (2)   Business entities with a fiscal year ending between April 30 and
September 30 will have their license extended until the fourth month following
the end of the fiscal year in 2017.
   (E)   No refunds will be issued for any identity that is no longer
conducting business within city limits.
(Prior Code, § 110.19) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 110.20 CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   Pursuant to KRS 2188.130, all cannabis business operations as defined in KRS
2188.010 shall be prohibited within the city.
(Ord. 900-2024, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts shall be subject to
a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
      (1)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
      (2)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for payment.
   (B)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed
25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax provided for in this chapter and all increases, interest and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   Any business entity which fails to remit the proper tax and penalties
on or before the first day of the month following the due date, shall have any
and all city provided utilities disconnected (cut off), unless such action is
otherwise prohibited by law. Any person or business who has their utility
services disconnected under this provision shall pay any applicable service
fees in addition to the fees and penalties imposed elsewhere in this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully makes a
false return or willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, a RETURN shall mean and include any
return, declaration or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.790, or by the rules
of the city or by written request for information to the business entity by the
city.
   (I)   (1)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of
laws or in any action challenging a tax law of the city.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (I)(1) above by
intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (3)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (I)(1) above by
divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
   (J)   In addition to any penalties imposed, the offending party shall also
be liable for all attorneys’ fees and court costs.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 828-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirements
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries.
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, faking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a) The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant: has been convicted of a crime
of moral turpitude; has made willful misstatements in the application; has
committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to itinerant merchants,
peddlers, solicitors and the like; has committed prior fraudulent acts; has a
record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or has an unsatisfactory
moral character, will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an
application.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted of all
persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For the purpose of
this division (A)(4), FULL DESCRIPTION includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall be given a plain written or printed ticket for
the loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of the mailing of the
notice, the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where a pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an agreement
to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on receiving any
payment of money from the person from whom the property was purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Remission of fees; premiums returned to policy holders
   
113.06   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city on a fiscal year basis until amended with licensing fees generated
hereby to be remitted to the city by all insurance companies subject to this
chapter during each calendar quarter.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 397-1984, passed 10-27-1984; Ord. 493-1992, passed
12-7-1992)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 8.5% of the first year’s premiums actually collected
within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 397-1984, passed 10-27-1984; Ord. 493-1992, passed
12-7-1992)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8.5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being
KRS Chapter 342 and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228
or, premiums received by any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to
KRS Chapter 18A for the purpose of providing health benefits to state
employees.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 397-1984, passed 10-27-1984; Ord. 493-1992, passed
12-7-1992)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 397-1984, passed 10-27-1984; Ord. 493-1992, passed
12-7-1992)
§ 113.05 REMISSION OF FEES; PREMIUMS RETURNED TO POLICY HOLDERS.
   The licensing fees and tax on insurance policies imposed hereby in §§
113.02 and
113.03 of this chapter and to be remitted to the city as provided in §
113.04 hereinabove, shall be subject to that credit concerning premiums
returned to policy holders provided for in KRS 91A.080(3).
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 493-1992, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 113.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 397-1984, passed 10-27-1984)
CHAPTER 114: COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application requirements
   
114.04   Room size and location requirements
   
114.05   Limitation on number of devices at one location
   
114.06   Responsibility for maintaining peace
   
114.07   Fees and revocation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT AREA, PLACE, BUSINESS or ESTABLISHMENT. Any site or situs wherein,
whereat or whereupon any one or more amusement game, device, machine or
activity is located, intended to be located, operated or ongoing.
   AMUSEMENT GAME, DEVICE, MACHINE or ACTIVITY. Anything which to a user,
vendee, customer or participant upon payment of consideration, or by the use or
deposit of a coin, token, electromagnetic card, activation signal or object
automatically or by some mechanical operation or the permitted use of same,
results unto, provides or affords music or amusement of some character with or
without vending any merchandise, but in addition to any merchandise, and shall
not include any bona fide merchandise vending machine or device in or as to
which there are no amusement features.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any machine or device which provides or dispenses
merchandise or change only without an amusement feature.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to continue, have, maintain or operate any amusement
area, amusement place, amusement business, amusement establishment, amusement
game, amusement device, amusement machine or amusement activity in or upon
business premises or property within the city, shall make written application
to the City Clerk/Treasurer, for issuance of an amusement permit having
attached all data and relevant information as required by this chapter and
paying to Clerk/Treasurer, all charges and fees as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All applicants for an amusement permit shall have attached to the written
application the following:
   (A)   A certification of the zoning classification of the applicant’s
property and premises;
   (B)   A certification that the applicant has paid the annual license fee to
the County Clerk required pursuant to KRS 137.115(1)(e) for each billiard or
pool table or bowling alley;
   (C)   A certification issued by the State Fire Marshal that the applicant’s
property and premises have been inspected and certified for use and occupancy
by the public for its intended use and stating the maximum number of persons
that may occupy and use the applicant’s premises; and
   (D)   A set of drawings or plans to scale showing the size and dimensions of
the applicant’s property and premises together with the location of all
entrances, exits, aisles and the present and proposed site, location and area
for each amusement game, amusement device and vending machine.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.04 ROOM SIZE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each electric, token/coin-operated or electromagnetically activated
amusement game, device or machine located on business premises within the city
shall be placed/located at least six feet from the main entrance or exits of
the premises to ensure the safe, clear exit of the premises in case of
emergency.
   (B)   Each amusement game, device or machine located on business premises
within the city for which the user or customer pays a consideration to the
owner for the use and enjoyment thereof, shall be placed and located at least
six feet from the main entrance or exits of the premises to ensure the safe,
clear exit of the premises in case of emergency.
   (C)   The entrance or customer or participant use area or zone of all other
amusements deemed or classified as an amusement activity on business premises
within the city, shall be placed and located at least six feet from the main
entrance or exits of the premises to ensure the safe, clear exit of the
premises in case of emergency and be also in location and have a size and area
sufficient to accommodate the amusement activity.
   (D)   All business premises within the city having or proposed for one or
more amusement games, amusement devices, amusement machines or amusement
activities or which is, in whole or in part, to be used as an amusement area,
amusement place, amusement business or amusement establishment, shall have
aisles not less than three feet in width.
   (E)   Each amusement game, device or machine, whether for payment of
consideration only or electric, token/coin-operated or electromagnetically
activated, shall have at least two feet of clearance on all sides thereof,
except where the amusement game, device or machine is permanently place or
located against a wall, in which case, a two-foot clearance on three sides will
be sufficient.
   (F)   The minimum area for business premises within the city having two or
more amusement games, amusement devices, amusement machines or amusement
activities, or proposed for use and classification, in whole or in part, as an
amusement area, amusement place, amusement business or amusement establishment
to have therein two or more amusement games, amusement devices, amusement
machines or amusement activities, shall be not less than 150 feet in area.
   (G)   Business premises not having at least 150 feet of area dedicated for
use exclusively as an amusement area, amusement place or an amusement
establishment, shall not be issued an amusement permit for the operation of an
amusement area, amusement place or an amusement establishment; and may be
issued a permit to operate one amusement game, amusement device, amusement
machine or amusement activity only, if such applicant’s application evidences
an area and location sufficient for an amusement game, device, machine or
activity.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.05 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DEVICES AT ONE LOCATION.
   (A)   The maximum number of amusement games, devices or machines allowed
within business premises initially determined from the submitted scaled plans
to be sufficient in area dedicated for use exclusive as an amusement area,
shall be as follows: the area total on such scaled plans shown as being
dedicated for use exclusive as an amusement area (total area) minus the
required or dedicated areas shown on the scaled plat for aisle and setback
distances from the main entrance and all exits (reserved emergency area) which
equals the net area remaining divided by the area or space required to
accommodate the actual area circumscribing or occupied by an amusement game,
device or machine to be placed permanently against a wall plus the area
sufficient surrounding each such game device or machine to provide the two-foot
spacing or clearance on three sides of each such game, device or machine plus
the area or space required to accommodate the actual area circumscribing or
occupied by a free-standing amusement game, device or machine plus the area
sufficient surrounding each such free-standing game, device or machine to
provide the two-foot spacing or clearance on four sides of each game, device or
machine.
   (B)   The number of amusement activity areas shall be the number shown upon
the applicant’s submitted scaled plans as long as such amusement activity areas
are sufficient in size and area to accommodate the intended use and activity
shown for such place and area and the same has the approval and certification
of the State Fire Marshal and has other aisles and setbacks servicing the areas
and places as hereinabove required.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTAINING PEACE.
   (A)   Any person having or maintaining on business premises an amusement
area, amusement place, amusement business, amusement establishment, amusement
game, amusement device, amusement machine or amusement activity, shall have the
affirmative duty and responsibility to ensure that users of any such amusement
area, amusement game, amusement device, amusement machine or amusement activity
shall maintain peace and decorum at all times within, upon or about property
and premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any amusement licensee or holder of an
amusement permit to allow or permit within, upon or about property and premises
any loud, boisterous or obscene conduct or conversations, any noise or
nuisance, any lewd, indecent or immoral acts or gestures, permit any acts of
disorderly conduct, or any unlawful act by any user or spectator of such games,
devices, machines or activities.
   (C)   All amusement games, devices, machines, activities and amusement areas
shall be used for amusement purposes only, and any form of wagering, gambling
or betting by use of such games, devices, machines or activities is expressly
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.07 FEES AND REVOCATION.
   In addition to the payment of any fee or charge for the issuance of an
occupational license to maintain, operate and engage in the business within the
city, the applicant for issuance of an amusement permit, shall pay to the City
Clerk/Treasurer the following fees and charges at the time of application and
forthcoming issuance of any required or appropriate amusement permit, and
annually or hereafter as so provided:
   (A)   For issuance initial of an amusement permit, the applicant and
prospective permit holder, shall be required to pay a fee in the sum and amount
of $10 for each, separate and identifiable type, class and category of
amusement game, device, machine or activity, and the sum and amount of $5 for
each like or similar amusement game, device, machine or activity for which the
foregoing $10 fee was to be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Thereafter, in July of each subsequent calendar year, said holder of
an amusement permit shall be required to renew the amusement permit and pay to
the City Clerk/Treasurer, the fees and charges as determined for each amusement
game, device, machine or activity in such sums and amounts as provided in this
section.
   (C)   If at any time after the initial issuance of an amusement permit, or
at any time after the date of renewal of amusement permit, the holder of an
amusement permit, shall add additional amusement games, devices, machines or
activities, then the amusement permit holder shall advise, in writing, the City
Clerk/Treasurer of such additions and immediately remit and pay all fees and
charges as may be determined by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Any failure to timely pay the fees and charges as provided in this
chapter, shall result in the immediate suspension or revocation of the
amusement permit with reinstatement to be by action of a majority of the Mayor
and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates on business premises an amusement area,
amusement place, amusement business, amusement establishment, amusement game,
amusement device, amusement machine or an amusement activity, shall:
      (1)   Have the issuance of any required amusement permit denied by the
City Clerk/Treasurer and, thereafter be required to present his or her
application for an amusement permit to the Mayor and City Council at a hearing
on the merits requiring an affirmative vote of the majority to grant an
amusement permit to the applicant;
      (2)   Have any amusement permit currently issued immediately revoked or
suspended upon written notice forwarded by the City Clerk/Treasurer to the
delinquent amusement permit holder who, thereafter, may have such amusement
permit reinstated only by an affirmative vote of the majority of the Mayor and
City Council made at a hearing on the merits of the amusement permit holder’s
written request;
      (3)   Be subject to prosecution in the county district court for unlawful
operation of a business or unlawful conduct of a business activity and, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each day of
unlawful operation or conduct of a business activity; and
      (4)   Such conviction shall be grounds to deny the issuance or
reinstatement of the amusement permit.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
114.06 shall be subject to criminal prosecution in the county district court;
be fined upon conviction not less than $25 nor more than $200 per violation or
for each day’s violation. Such conviction shall be grounds to deny issuance or
reinstatement of the amusement permit.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 520-1994, passed 10-3-1994)
CHAPTER 115: YARD AND GARAGE SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Number and duration of permitted yard/garage sales
   
115.03   Application and permits required for yard/garage sales
   
115.04   Display of yard/garage sale permits
   
115.05   Return of yard/garage sale permit
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY-SPONSORED YARD SALES. Periodic yard/garage sale events as may be
sponsored by the city under the terms and requirements as fixed and noticed by
the city.
   CLOSE. The boundary separate of the property owner, including all buildings,
improvements and appurtenances thereto which is used as the property owner’s
principal residence or used primarily for residential purposes.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner or holder of the title to real estate, the
equitable title or the leasehold interest in the property and premises upon
which a yard or garage sale is permitted, whether a person, firm, corporation,
contract seller or vendor, contract buyer or vendee, lessor, lessee, landlord,
tenant or any entity.
   YARD/GARAGE SALE. The occasional, on-premises sale, by a property owner, of
miscellaneous items of personal property conducted upon property and close used
primarily for residential purposes or classified and zoned residential.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 115.02 NUMBER AND DURATION OF PERMITTED YARD/GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, a property owner shall hold not
more than two yard or garage sales within a calendar year and such yard or
garage sale shall not be more than two consecutive calendar days in duration.
   (B)   The limitation in division (A) above, shall not apply to a property
owner holding a yard or garage sale under the auspices of city-wide sales
sponsored periodically by the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 115.03 APPLICATION AND PERMITS REQUIRED FOR YARD/GARAGE SALES.
   All property owners desiring to conduct a private or participate in a
sponsored, city-wide yard or garage sale, shall make an application for the
yard/garage sale permit to the City Clerk/Treasurer. There will be no fee or
charge for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 115.04 DISPLAY OF YARD/GARAGE SALE PERMITS.
   All yard/garage sale permits, whether for a private or city-sponsored yard/
garage sale, issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer, shall be conspicuously
displayed upon the close and premises of the yard/garage sale during the term
of said yard/garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 115.05 RETURN OF YARD/GARAGE SALE PERMIT.
   A yard/garage sale permit issued for a private yard or garage sale under §
115.02 which is canceled or not held shall be timely returned by the permittee
to the City Clerk/Treasurer and, upon such timely return of permit, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall note the return of permit and enter that a yard/garage
sale under permit was canceled or not held by the permittee and that such
permittee is entitled to reissuance of a replacement yard/garage sale permit.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction,
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 plus court costs, and each day of
sale conducted in violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 524-1994, passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 116: FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS; FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Imposition of lien
   
116.03   Use of tax
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPOSITS. All demand and time deposits, excluding deposits of the United
States government, state and political subdivision, other financial
institutions, public libraries, educational institutions, religious
institutions and certified and officers’ checks.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
      (1)   A national bank organized and existing as a national bank
association pursuant to the provisions of the National Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. §§
21 et seq., in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or a national bank organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of the National Bank Act in effect on December 31,
1995.
      (2)   Any bank or trust company incorporated or organized under the laws
of any state, except a banker’s bank organized under KRS 386.3-135.
      (3)   Any corporation organized under the provisions of 12 U.S.C. §§ 611
through 631, in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any corporation organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §§ 611 through 631, in effect on
December 31, 1995.
      (4)   Any agency or branch of a foreign depository, as defined in 12
U.S.C. § 3101, in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any agency or branch of a foreign depository
established after December 31, 1995, that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §
1301 in effect on December 31, 1995.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) (Ord. 545-1996, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 116.02 IMPOSITION OF LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property which lien
shall be superior to all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 545-1996, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 116.03 USE OF TAX.
   All monies collected shall be paid into the General Fund of the city to be
used for the payment of proper expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 545-1996, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with §§
116.02 and
116.03 which are not paid before June 30, 1997, for the tax year of 1996, or
which are not paid before January 31 for all subsequent years’ tax years, shall
be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear
interest at the rate of 12% per annum thereon from delinquency until paid.
(Prior Code, § 116.99) (Ord. 545-1996, passed 10-14-1996)
CHAPTER 117: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Dedication of revenues
   
117.03   Administration
   
117.04   Effective date of chapter
   
117.05   Requirement of an employee occupational license
   
117.06   Levy of employee occupational licensing fees
   
117.07   Employer’s duties and responsibilities
   
117.08   Making of return and payment of licensing fees
   
117.09   Confidentiality of records and information
   
117.10   Inspection and audit of employers and employee record
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein or as set forth in KRS 67.750 through 67.795 and used
concerning matters of and germane to occupational licensing and occupational
license taxes, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service organization or other legal entity through which business
is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or another form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows: include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar agreement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangement under I.R.C. §§ 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457; and include any
amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare benefit, fringe benefit or
other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other payment method which
permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable compensation under the
Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, or its equivalent, under an express or implied
contract, and who is under the control or direction of the latter, including an
officer of a corporation and any officer, employee or elected official of the
United States, a state, a political subdivision of a state, or any agency or
instrumentality of any one or more of the above and so including temporary,
provisional, casual or part-time or outsourced employees, workers or
employment. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered as an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. As defined by I.R.C. § 3401.
   FISCAL YEAR. As defined by I.R.C. § 7701.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease or
rental of goods, services or property by a business entity reduced by the
following: sales and excise taxes paid; and returns and allowances.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2016, and any applicable amendments made thereafter.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES, OCCUPATIONAL TAX and PAYROLL TAX. For the purpose
of this chapter and related documents, shall have one and the same meaning, may
be used interchangeable and are separate and distinct from BUSINESS LICENSE.
   PERSON. Every natural person, proprietorship, firm, organization,
association, congregation, undertaking, venture, joint venture, company,
corporation, administration, agency, governmental body or unit, or other
entity. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing or imposing
a sanction or penalty, in the nature of a fine, or confinement, or
imprisonment, the word, as applied to any association or entity, shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to a corporation, the officers and
directors thereof.
   TAX DISTRICT. A home rule city, county, urban-county, charter county,
consolidated local government, school district, special taxing district or any
other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy gross receipts, net
profits or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year upon the basis of which gross receipts are computed.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.02 DEDICATION OF REVENUES.
   All monies and revenues generated by the occupational license fees levied
and imposed by this chapter, shall and the same are hereby dedicated to the
General Fund of the city, as shown upon the budgets of the city so adopted and
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the city, through the principal office
of its City Clerk/Treasurer, or other designated or specified city employees,
personnel, agents or designees. The city is hereby authorized and empowered to
engage or employ other persons or agencies as it deems necessary to administer
and enforce said chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.03) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.04 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER.
   The requirement of an employee occupational license and the imposition of an
occupational licensing fee upon employees established and fixed hereinafter,
shall be effective as of February 13, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 117.04) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.05 REQUIREMENT OF AN EMPLOYEE OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE.
   (A)   For the right and privilege to be employed or engage in any manner of
work activities, as an employee or employed person, within the city, there is
hereby and here under established that all such employees and employed persons
obtain from the city, an annual employee occupational license, unless
specifically exempt under this section.
   (B)   (1)   All sworn public safety officials, including all law
enforcement, Fire Department and EMS/EMT personnel working for a governmental
(public) agency are hereby exempt from the occupational/payroll tax.
      (2)   In the event another governmental agency imposes a payroll tax upon
employees of the city who are within the exempted class, then the exemption for
the employees of that governmental agency shall be repealed and any such
employees shall be subject to the payroll tax. Individuals employed by a
private (non-public) entity are not exempt from the occupation/payroll tax.
(Prior Code, § 117.05) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.06 LEVY OF EMPLOYEE OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING FEES.
   For the privilege of being employed or engage in any occupation, business,
trade, profession or other activity within the city as an employee, the
employee shall pay an occupational licensing fee of 1.25% of all wages,
salaries, commissions or other compensation earned by such employee in the city
for work done or services performed or rendered within the city.
(Prior Code, § 117.06) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.07 EMPLOYER’S DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of an employer having employees
subject to the herein occupational licensing and occupational licensing fee
provisions to:
   (A)   Withhold the herein employee occupational licensing fees due here
under from the employer’s employee’s compensation had or derived from work
activities within the city;
   (B)   On the forms and returns provided by the city, timely remit and pay
unto the city all such occupational licensing fees due to the city for the
employer’s employee’s work activities within the city; and
   (C)   Cooperate with and provide the city with additional data and
information germane hereto as may be required by the city in order to
administer the herein chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.07) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.08 MAKING OF RETURN AND PAYMENT OF LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Each quarterly return shall be made by the employer and filed
with the City Clerk/Treasurer not later than close of business the last day of
the calendar month following the end of the reporting quarter.
      (2)   For the purpose of meeting the deadline requirement of this
section, postmarks are acceptable as proof of compliance, and an employer has
three additional days from the last day of the calendar month following the end
of the reporting quarter to file the quarterly return.
   (B)   All payments of employee occupational licensing fees due under the
employer’s return shall be made and remitted by cash, credit card, business
check, certified check, cashier’s check or money order made payable to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 117.08) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 879-2021, passed
6-21-2021) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION.
   All returns and records of the employer and employee, including the names
and identities of employer’s employees, shall remain confidential and be not
subject to public inspection, review or duplication, except the amount of
monies paid for occupational licensing fees under a return is deemed to be a
public record subject to public review and inspection under the State Open
Records Act, being KRS 61.870(1).
(Prior Code, § 117.09) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.10 INSPECTION AND AUDIT OF EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEE RECORD.
   (A)   For cause, the city shall have the right to inspect and audit the
records of an employer and its employees to ensure compliance with this chapter
and ensure due and full payment of all employee occupational licensing fees due
here under to the city.
   (B)   To substantiate the employer’s returns made for a calendar year, or
any part of a calendar year, the employer shall be required to file and attach
a W-2 and W-3 form to the return made for the quarter ending in each December
of each calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 117.10) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any and every employer who fails to file a return or
pay employees’ tax on or before the due date prescribed herein shall be subject
to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall
not exceed 25% of the tax due: however, the penalty shall not be less than $25;
and, in addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the tax district. A fraction of a
month is counted as an entire month. Further, every tax subject to the
provisions herein and KRS 67.750 through 67.790 and all increases, interest and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the tax district.
   (B)   Penalties civil or criminal and sanctions for other actions,
violations or noncompliance.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in the section, any
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return or willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected with
the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any
business who willfully fails to make a return, willfully makes a false return
or willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected with the intent to evade
payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof, shall be subject
to the imposition of a stop work order, a revocation of their business license
and the disconnection of any and all city provided utilized. The following
sanctions contained in this division (B) may be imposed upon violators
beginning ten days after the tax are due and payable.
      (3)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels
or advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with any
matter arising under KRS 67.750 through 67.790 of a return, affidavit, claim or
other document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter,
whether or not the falsity of fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the
person authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or
document, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a RETURN shall mean and include
any return, declaration or form prescribed by the tax district and required to
be filed with the tax district by the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.790,
or by the rules of the tax district, this chapter or by written request for
information to the business entity by the tax district.
      (5)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall
intentionally and without authorization inspect or divulge any information
acquired by him or her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding
the tax schedules, returns or reports required to be filed with the tax
district or other proper officer, or any information produced by a hearing or
investigations, insofar as the information may have to do with the affairs of
the person’s business. This prohibition does not extend to information required
in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for taxation, or any other
infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter of public record, nor
does it preclude furnishings and a taxpayer or taxpayer’s property authorized
agent with information respecting his or her return. Further, his or her
prohibition does not preclude any employee of the tax district from testifying
in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the
tax district, in an action for violation of a tax district laws or in any
action challenging a tax district’s tax laws.
         (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (B)(5)
by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (B)(5)
by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 117.99) (Ord. 827-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 118: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Title
   
118.002   Purpose
   
118.003   Definitions
   
118.004   Scope
   
118.005   Adoption of state law
   
118.006   Adoption of county ordinances
Licenses; License Fees; Regulatory License Fee; Expiration of License
   
118.020   License established
   
118.021   Distilled spirits, wine and malt beverage license fees
   
118.022   License required for Sunday sales
   
118.023   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
118.024   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
118.025   Refund of fees
   
118.026   Regulatory license fee
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
118.040   Creation; powers and duties of Administrator
   
118.041   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
118.055   Advertisement
   
118.056   Application
   
118.057   Other conditions
   
118.058   Form of license
   
118.059   Change of information
   
118.060   Renewal of license
   
118.061   Lost or destroyed license
   
118.062   Revocation or suspension
   
118.063   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license; notice and
opportunity to contest; appeal; effect of revocation or suspension
   
118.064   Transfer or assignment
   
118.065   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
118.066   Review of license; books, records and reports
   
118.067   Dormancy
Hours for Sale and Delivery
   
118.080   Distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink; weekday and
Sunday sales
   
118.081   Retail package distilled spirits and wine sales and package malt
beverage sales
   
118.082   Distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink; holiday and
election day sales
Requirements, Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
118.095   Conduct prohibited on licensed premises; license to be displayed;
required signs
   
118.096   Possession by minors prohibited; no person shall aid possession by
minors
   
118.097   Consumption on licensed package premises, certain ABC licensed
premises and vacant premises prohibited; exceptions
   
118.098   Mandatory responsible Beverage Service Training
Signs and Advertising
   
118.110   Compliance with city rules and regulations
   
118.111   Prohibited off premises and exterior advertising
   
118.112   Sign requirements
   
118.113   Prohibited lighting; use of handbills
   
118.114   Compliance with state law
   
118.115   Advertising on municipally owned property prohibited
   
118.116   False or misleading advertising prohibited
Patio and Outdoor Sales
   
118.130   Patio and outdoor sales
   
118.131   Where permitted
   
118.132   Screening requirements
   
118.133   Compliance required; exceptions
 
   
118.998   Enforcement
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance of
the City of Dry Ridge, Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 118.001) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization of KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
(Prior Code, § 118.002) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) and all
amendments and supplements thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.003) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.004 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.004) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.005 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Chapters 241
through 244) and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted so far as
applicable to this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 118.005) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.006 ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCES.
   As to any matters not expressly addressed within concerning the sale of
alcoholic beverages, the city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference any
duly enacted ordinances of the county fiscal court, which are not inconsistent
with the provisions contained within.
(Prior Code, § 118.006) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
LICENSES; LICENSE FEES; REGULATORY LICENSE FEE; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE
§ 118.020 LICENSE ESTABLISHED.
   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall be as set out in
the following schedule. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be amended to
authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each city license shall be the
maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
(Prior Code, § 118.020) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.021 DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINE AND MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE FEES.
   The following distilled spirits, wine and malt beverage licenses may be
issued by the city, the fees for which shall be:
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum              $1,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                           $800
Distilled spirit license as set forth in KRS 243.030:
   Distiller’s license, per annum                                   $500
   Quota retail package license, per annum                            $800
   Rectifier’s license, per annum                                   $3,000
   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum       $3,000
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction, license, per event $200
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                           $2,000
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt   $800
beverages), per annum
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt    $800
beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $2,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $1,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Special temporary license, per event                                     $100
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                           $300
Malt beverage licenses as follows:
   Brewer’s license, per annum                                      $500
   Malt beverage brew-on-premises, per annum                          $100
   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum                   $400
   Microbrewery license, per annum                                    $500
   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum          $200
   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license per annum      $200
The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be the same
as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for each
supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the same
premises.
The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may obtain a
non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The holder of a
non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota retail malt
beverage package license for a fee of $50.
 
(Prior Code, § 118.021) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.022 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   No licensee shall offer distilled spirits or wine for sale on Sunday
unless the licensee shall have obtained a special license for Sunday sales.
   (B)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to retail drink, distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverage licenses shall apply to the special licenses,
unless otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 118.022) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.023 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on July 1 of any
year and shall expire on June 30 of the following year. Any licenses issued
after December 31 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro
rata portion of the remainder of the license period; however, the cost of any
license shall not be less than one-half the amount of the full fee for an
annual license of that type.
(Prior Code, § 118.023) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.024 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 118.024) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.025 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the state with reference to
alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control, then the city
shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license fee for the
period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said business if the
licensee provides sufficient proof to the Administrator that such period of
inactivity was not the fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation,
suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or an agent or employee of the
licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 118.025) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.026 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, the city hereby imposes a regulatory license
fee on the sale of alcoholic beverages under each of the licenses issued by the
Administrator. The regulatory license fee at the time of adoption shall be
initially assessed at 5% of the gross sales on all alcoholic beverages sold by
the drink or gross sales of packaged distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.
Thereafter, the City Council shall adjust the rate of the regulatory license
fee at the budget adoption for each subsequent fiscal year, as shall be based
on reasonable estimations to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the cost
of any additional policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city fail to address the
regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall
remain at the level at which it was last fixed until such time as the City
Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the Administrator
and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the purpose of fully
reimbursing the city for the estimated cost of any additional policing,
regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic beverages
in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other
taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the license fee return approved for such
use by the City Council. The return and payment are due no later than the
twentieth day immediately following each calendar month. Each month, 10% of the
license fee shall be credited to the business’s regulatory license fee
obligation for the first ten months of the license period.
   (C)   The regulatory license fee is due on the twentieth day of the
following month for the prior month’s license fee. On the last business day of
each month, the city shall mail a reminder to each business subject to the
regulatory license fee that payment is due on the twentieth day of the
following month. If the twentieth falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, the due date
is the following business day. Payments can be made by either cash, credit
card, check or money order by mail to the ABC Administrator at P.O. Box 145, 31
Broadway Street, Dry Ridge, Kentucky 41035. Checks shall be made payable to the
“City of Dry Ridge c/o ABC Administrator.” The city shall also accept payments
in person at the City Building at 31 Broadway Street. Failure to pay such
monthly remittance by the due date constitutes a violation and will subject
licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay monthly remittance by the
due date is 5% of the tax for each 30 days or fraction thereof. The total late
filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the fee; provided, however, that in no
case shall the penalty be less than $25.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 12% per annum will apply to any late payments.
   (F)   Pursuant to § 3 of 804 KAR 10:031, the estimation of the costs shall
be based on the following categories from the Calculation Form for Alcohol
Regulatory Fee in First Year Following Repeal of Prohibition. The city shall
keep a detailed account of the costs related to the categories assessed each
fiscal year so that the city may assess the necessity of the regulatory license
fee:
      (1)   Additional personnel costs, including, but not limited to, salaries
of administrative staff and increased bond or liability costs;
      (2)   Additional costs of equipment and office supplies directly related
to the administration and regulation of alcoholic beverage control laws;
      (3)   Additional costs of office space, utilities and communications and
technology expenses for the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator and other
staff necessary for the administration and regulation;
      (4)   Additional travel expenses incurred for policing, administration
and regulation of alcoholic beverages within the jurisdiction;
      (5)   Policing expenses, including, but not limited to, additional police
staff and costs directly related to all alcohol-related incidents and
responses; and
      (6)   Miscellaneous costs directly related to the discontinuance of
prohibition which shall be specifically described as to its necessity.
   (G)   The first regulatory license fee shall be due on September 20, 2019.
The ABC Administrator shall have until August 31, 2019, to take all necessary
steps to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.026) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016; Ord. 867-2019, passed
6-13-2019)
CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 118.040 CREATION; POWERS AND DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the office of City
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator (“Administrator”).
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as the Administrator, or the Mayor may appoint
someone else to fill the position pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The Administrator may from time to time appoint such additional
personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this
chapter.
   (D)   The salary for the office of Administrator, if any, together with the
salaries of any other personnel assisting the Administrator, shall be fixed
from time to time by the City Council.
   (E)   The functions of the Administrator shall be the same with respect to
the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board (“ABC Board”) with respect to state licenses and
regulations, except that no amendment to these regulations proposed by the
Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating to Alcoholic
Beverage Control, or than regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the
Administrator shall become effective until the City Council has first
appropriately approved it.
   (F)   No person shall be an Administrator, an Investigator or an employee of
the city under the supervision of the Administrator, who would be disqualified
to be a member of the ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (G)   The Administrator shall have all authority as authorized under KRS
Chapters 241 through 244. The Administrator, and the ABC Administrator’s
investigators, may inspect any premises where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining
a search warrant.
   (H)   Should the Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds to
believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC or other business
organization, has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to
require such person to appear in person at the City Police Department for the
purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (I)   The Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties as such,
shall take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution and shall
execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than
$1,000. The Administrator may require any employee under the Administrator’s
supervision to execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the Administrator
deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 118.040) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.041 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the Administrator may be taken to the State
ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of the
orders of the Administrator. The Board shall hear matters at issue as upon an
original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the Administrator shall be governed
by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the Administrator shall have been appealed, or
when a protest has been lodged against an application for any license within
the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding such appeal or
protested application, the Administrator, upon receipt of notice of finality of
the decision, shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the
final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and as used herein, no order
of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal times shall have been
exhausted. A final order of the ABC Board is the order entered by said Board,
unless an appeal is taken from the Board’s order, in which case the final order
is the order entered by the Board upon direction from the reviewing court of
last resort in the final order of said reviewing court.
(Prior Code, § 118.041) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE
§ 118.055 ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant
must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license
in a newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as
the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a corporation,
the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the principal officers
and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and address of the
corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location of the premises
for which the license is sought and the type of license for which application
is made.
   (C)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Prior Code, § 118.055) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.056 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A nonrefundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing
of the application for a city license. If the license is granted, the
application fee shall be credited against the initial license fee.
   (B)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for renewals
of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided by the ABC
Board and the city, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
   (C)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought as required by the state statutes, the ABC Board and the city, including
as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of the
state. If a resident of the city, indicate when residence was established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a
postal or express money order for the amount of the license fee, less the $50
application fee. License fees may be paid by credit/debit card if the
application is delivered in person.
   (E)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file with the application responses to any additional questions as may be posed
or prescribed by the Administrator. The City Council has adopted a statement of
guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses and, in order to
determine the extent to which applications may further or impede the objectives
of those guidelines, the Council may, by municipal order, adopt a questionnaire
to be submitted to applicants for licenses. Upon adoption of the questionnaire,
it shall become a part of the application process. The initial questionnaire
adopted by the City Council is a part of this chapter and incorporated herein
as Exhibit A. The questionnaire may be altered, expanded, supplemented or
replaced by municipal order of the Council hereafter. In addition to the
information contained in the application and any city ordered questionnaire,
the Administrator may require such other information as the Administrator may
in his or her discretion deem desirable, reasonable or appropriate to the
consideration of the application.
(Prior Code, § 118.056) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.057 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations
required or permitted by law:
      (1)   The Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage license or
approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her place of
business shall have been approved by the City Building Inspector, and any and
all other inspections required by the State Building Code, the local Zoning
Administrator or Fire Department;
      (2)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background
check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the
Administrator; and
      (3)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of issuing the license, nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any
fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to sell
alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (B)   No person, whether an applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the
Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any State ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division (B) is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a City or State ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
section. This section shall not be interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements
in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order or
revocation or suspension, where the ordinance and applicable statutes allow for
such payments in settlement.
(Prior Code, § 118.057) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.058 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the City
Council and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 118.058) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.059 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the Administrator within ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the Administrator. The
Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the ownership or
management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that person is
precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word change is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information will be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of
the state. If a resident of the city, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the Administrator as a
verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Prior Code, § 118.059) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.060 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of temporary licenses, each licensee
shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the license for
the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except where the
licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during
the preceding license period as a result of construction, act of God, casualty,
death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the premises by any
federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private organization
possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease; provided, that said licensee shall file a written verified statement no
less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting forth these
facts, and the Administrator is hereby authorized to extend the time for filing
of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length of time within the sound
discretion of the Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a
license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said
license fee shall not by payable until application is made for the transfer of
said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the Administrator of the license shall not be construed
to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to such
renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 118.060) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.061 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the Administrator after the Administrator shall have
been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the applicant for said
duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate license.
(Prior Code, § 118.061) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.062 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the Administrator if the licensee
shall have violated any of the provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through 244, or
any rule or regulation of the ABC Board or of the Department of Revenue
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or
taxation of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or
shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal
board, agency or commission, or this chapter now, heretofore, or hereafter in
effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation
or taxation of intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations of the city
heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chapters 241 through
244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted
the violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or
her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause
which the Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion deems
sufficient.
   (A)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be revoked
or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If, within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted of
two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243 or 244
or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages or if within such
period, any licensee or any clerk, servant, agent or employee of the license
shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of one such
felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter or acts of Congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof; and
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility.
(Prior Code, § 118.062) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.063 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE AND
OPPORTUNITY TO CONTEST; APPEAL; EFFECT OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer or of the Administrator, the Administrator may
institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license granted under this
chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after the licensee shall
have been given written notice, by certified or registered mail, of the
proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such proposed action.
The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in opposition to the
proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed action shall advise
the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing. Notice shall be
sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in the last
application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or in
amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be prescribed by the City Council by municipal
order. Such order shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Administrator and a copy furnished with any notice of proposed revocation or
suspension sent to a licensee. If the Council shall fail to adopt such
municipal order, the procedures shall be those set out in the State
Administrative Procedure Act (KRS Chapter 13A and 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the Administrator revoking or suspending a license may
be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the Administrator. If the revoked or suspended
license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of Police at
the request of the Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her
officers to take physical possession of the license and return it to the
Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the Administrator, dispose of and transfer his or her
stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the Administrator revoking or suspending a
license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal shall stay
further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the Administrator,
and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a final order
of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the
licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this license.
(Prior Code, § 118.063) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.064 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the Administrator and
not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 118.064) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.065 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the Administrator may
appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Prior Code, § 118.065) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.066 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identify each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the Administrator shall have discretion in determining whether
revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a reasonable
period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is demonstrated by
the licensee, the Administrator may apply an accounting period of at least one
year in determining whether or not the food sale percentage requirement has
been met.
   (B)   (1)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon
the licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the Administrator and such city employees
who may assist the Administrator in his or her review.
      (2)   For the purpose of assisting the Administrator in enforcement of
this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board under KRS
243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the Administrator. Copies of any
and all reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by statute shall
be furnished to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 118.066) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.067 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the Administrator, the
license shall be surrendered to the Administrator. If the license is not
voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) hereof shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of
the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or
loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the
Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact that the licensee is
unable to continue in business, for any of the specific reasons set forth
herein, and the Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy with the
license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until same
is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business
is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license shall be
considered valid unless business is conducted there under within 12 months from
the date of notice to the Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond
the renewal date but may be for such times as the Administrator deems
appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Prior Code, § 118.067) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY
§ 118.080 DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINE OR MALT BEVERAGES BY THE DRINK; WEEKDAY AND
SUNDAY SALES.
   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink shall
be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. each day of the week, except
that such drink sales shall be permitted on Sunday only between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 118.080) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016; Ord. 840-2017, passed
11-20-2017)
§ 118.081 RETAIL PACKAGE DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE SALES AND PACKAGE MALT
BEVERAGE SALES.
   Retail package distilled spirits and wine sales and package malt beverage
sales shall be permitted from 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. each day of the week,
except that such package sales shall be permitted on Sunday only between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 118.081) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016; Ord. 840-2017, passed
11-20-2017)
§ 118.082 DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINE OR MALT BEVERAGES BY THE DRINK; HOLIDAY AND
ELECTION DAY SALES.
   (A)   A licensee licensed to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages
by the drink may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages on New Year’s Eve until
2:00 a.m. on January 1; provided, that the appropriate licenses have been
obtained from both the city and the State ABC Board.
   (B)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink
shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages during the hours that the polls are open on any election day.
(Prior Code, § 118.082) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
REQUIREMENTS, CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 118.095 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES; LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED;
REQUIRED SIGNS.
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the state
shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice, slot machines
or any device of chance are prohibited and shall not be kept on such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to
have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In
addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the
Chief of Police or the Administrator, or his or her designated investigator,
shall have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving
apparatus.
   (C)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises, including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are
further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed
premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct
connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages, nor shall any licensee give
away any alcoholic beverage in any quantity for less than a full monetary
consideration.
   (E)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
sell alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to be an
habitual drunkard or any person known to the seller or server to have been
convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-month
period. No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently under
the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises. As
used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence of
alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with specific
reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory alcohol
server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
   (F)   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all
identification to ascertain that every person attempting to purchase or consume
alcoholic beverages is at least 21 years of age.
   (G)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least eight inches by 11 inches, in 30 point or larger type, which states as
follows:
 
Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to $100 if they:
 
      1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic beverages.
 
      2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
 
      3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
beverages.
 
   (H)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license has
been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the
room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person
other than the licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in
any respect.
   (I)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least
one-inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health Services, which
shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during
pregnancy can cause birth defects. A person who violates this division (I)
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
   (J)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
   (K)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years;
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute; or
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
   (L)   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g. two-for-one,
happy hours) after the hour of 11:00 p.m. until closing.
   (M)   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises.
   (N)   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment
activities, including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture,
television, slide or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on
any licensed premises.
   (O)   Violation of this section shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Prior Code, § 118.095) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 243.895
§ 118.096 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; NO PERSON SHALL AID POSSESSION BY
MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS 241 through 244, no person
under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any licensed
premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this division (B),
premises specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed
establishment is situated, including any drive-up window. The prohibition
contained in this division (B) shall not apply to premises where the usual and
customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store,
grocery store, drugstore or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly allow, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licensees, as set out in §
118.095(F), shall require proof of age of all persons attempting to purchase or
consume alcoholic beverages on the licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individuals’ possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 118.110) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.097 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES, CERTAIN ABC LICENSED
PREMISES AND VACANT PREMISES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless said person or entity shall also have a drink
license conferring the privilege of consumption on the premises or shall have a
retail malt beverage license, which permits on-premises consumption. Any
licensee who intends to permit on-premises consumption shall, prior to
permitting on-premises consumption, notify the Administrator in writing of this
decision. A licensee who does not permit on-premises consumption shall post a
prominent notice on the premises stating that consumption of alcoholic
beverages on premises is prohibited.
      (2)   This restriction regarding on-premises consumption shall not
prohibit sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 11:030.
   (B)   No person or entity operating a package liquor store, whether
trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, including retail
package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit habitual congregating
of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed premises so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in possession or
control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit habitual
congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
      (1)   No persons shall congregate for the purposes, under the
circumstances, or in the places proscribed in divisions (A) and (B) above.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under divisions (A) or (B)
above if such licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the Police
Department to post and maintain a legible, painted or printed sign in at least
two separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less than three
inches in height, stating that congregating of persons is prohibited and that
violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
         PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses
issued for those purposes.
         PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the
general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
         VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure
exists or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which
otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 118.125) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.098 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete the STAR (Server Training in Alcohol
Regulations) beverage service training program.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the Administrator a record or
file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training information.
Each premises licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic beverages are
being served have at least one person currently certified in responsible
beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified in responsible beverage service training from a program approved
by the city not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 118.140) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 118.110 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing rules and
regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 118.155) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.111 PROHIBITED OFF PREMISES AND EXTERIOR ADVERTISING.
   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic beverages is
prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage advertising alcoholic
beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior premises of the
business. This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor umbrellas or other
outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of an alcoholic
beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.156) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.112 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages will be
limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed from the
inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs, banners,
posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either directly or
indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall it be
visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name of the
business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing in the
windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and one-
half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
(Prior Code, § 118.157) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.113 PROHIBITED LIGHTING; USE OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.158) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.114 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in compliance
with KRS 244.130.
(Prior Code, § 118.159) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.115 ADVERTISING ON MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally owned
property.
(Prior Code, § 118.160) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.116 FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test,” “high proof or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Prior Code, § 118.161) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES
§ 118.130 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only on
premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
(Prior Code, § 118.175) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.131 WHERE PERMITTED.
    No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or outdoor
area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or outdoor
area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than three feet
in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the approval of
the Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be granted for seasonal
sidewalk cafés upon application to and authorization from the Administrator.
The permission to operate a sidewalk café shall be governed by the provisions
of this subchapter and shall be subject to the regulation of local zoning
authorities as well as codes enforcement and public safety officers.
(Prior Code, § 118.176) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.132 SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages unless
the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 118.177) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.133 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. Unless exempted by the following provisions of
this section and by permission of the Administrator, patio areas must comply
with the screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas
must comply with this chapter and with local zoning ordinance and other public
safety requirements noted in this chapter or in other provisions of local
ordinances, statutes or regulations.
   (B)   Exception to screening requirement for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages in the case of permitted sidewalk cafés in the Central
Business District.
      (1)   Licensees in the Central Business District may request an exception
from this (outdoor screening of patio) provision to permit seasonal sidewalk
cafés that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct to the primary and
adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted sidewalk cafés, they shall
be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this chapter and the provisions of the State ABC Code, may, upon
application to the Administrator, ask permission to expand the operation of
that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which
immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as “sidewalk
café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a
sidewalk café permit.
      (3)   The Administrator may issue the permit if he or she finds that:
         (a)   The applicant is licensed under this chapter and the ABC Code
for the state;
         (b)   The applicant is in compliance with all conditions and
restrictions of said license;
         (c)   The applicant has all necessary building and use permits,
including certification of the Zoning Administrator that the sidewalk café is
permitted at the premises location; and
         (d)   Also finds that the issuance of the permit would not result in
any significant adverse land use impacts.
   (C)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing.
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   Umbrellas, tables, chairs and other portable appurtenances shall be
confined to the area shown on the approved permit. While such café is in
operation, all tables and chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used, and the
licensee shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by
patrons, customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (D)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the Administrator
evidence of insurance insuring the licensee against liability imposed by law
arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such sidewalk café in
an amount to be established by the Administrator. The city shall be named an
additional insured in the policy, providing such insurance and such policy
shall further provide that it may not be canceled except upon ten days’ written
notice (or more) filed with the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 118.178) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.998 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the Administrator are authorized to enforce this
chapter for alleged violations.
(Prior Code, § 118.998) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in the county
district court against an alleged violator, the Administrator may assess the
fines and penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per diem
assessments for ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed by
the state change under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this
chapter shall be adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed
by state law. Payment of all fines shall be made to the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall, for the
first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200 or imprisoned in
the County Jail for not more than six months, or both, and for the second and
each subsequent violation, he or she shall be fined not less than $200 nor more
than $500 or imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than six months, or
both. The penalties provided for in this division (B) shall be in addition to
the revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for
the violation may be imprisoned.
(Prior Code, § 118.999) (Ord. 805-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
CHAPTER 119: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Annual registration; fees
   
119.03   Compliance with federal, state and local laws
   
119.04   Duties of host
   
119.05   Enforcement
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or building that is rented as a short-term rental
and approved by the city.
   HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property,
tenant with permission of the owner or the designated property manager for the
owner who offers an approved dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for short-term
rental.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. An Internet-based platform that generally allows an owner
or tenant to advertise the dwelling unit through a website and provides a means
for potential transient users to arrange short-term rental and payment through
the hosting platform.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit that is rented, leased or otherwise
assigned for a tenancy of less than ten consecutive days duration, where no
meals are served. This term does not include hotel or motel rooms, extended
stay lodging facilities, bed and breakfast inns or boarding and lodging house
rooms. Hotels in the state require additional building and fire standards and
have to be approved and receive a permit through the State Cabinet for Health
and Family Services pursuant to KRS 219.021.
   TRANSIENT USER. A person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement
for a period of less than 30 consecutive days’ duration.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 119.02 ANNUAL REGISTRATION; FEES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall own or operate a short-term rental on
any premises within the city, unless the short-term rental has been registered
annually with the city.
   (A)   Each annual registration for a short-term rental shall be per the
procedure prescribed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The
registration form, at a minimum, shall include the following:
      (1)   The current street address of the unit to be licensed;
      (2)   The name, address, email address and phone numbers of the owner of
the premises or corporation’s owner’s representative, as applicable;
      (3)   If the owner is not a natural person, the applicant shall identify
all partners, officers and directors of any such entity and provide their
personal contact information;
      (4)   The name, address, email address and phone number of the designated
rental agent;
      (5)   The number of bedrooms in the unit and maximum occupancy;
      (6)   The number and location of parking spaces allotted to the unit;
      (7)   Evidence of notice to adjacent property owners of intent to apply
for a license;
      (8)   If the applicant is a lessee of the property, evidence of approval
by the property owner for authority to operate the unit as a short-term rental;
      (9)   The rental agent’s written statement of acceptance of the
responsibilities;
      (10)   A list of all hosting platforms through which the short-term
rental is listed or is reasonably anticipated to be listed; and
      (11)   The applicant shall certify that to the best of his or her
knowledge, the short-term rental is in conformity with:
         (a)   The State Building Code;
         (b)   The International Residential Code;
         (c)   International Property Maintenance Code;
         (d)   The Fire Code NFPA; and
         (e)   The Life Safety Code NFPA 101.
   (B)   The applicant shall further acknowledge that the short-term rental
must at all times maintain compliance with applicable federal, state and local
laws, regulations, ordinances or other rules or codes governing the operation
of the short-term rental, including the city nuisance code.
   (C)   The applicant shall acknowledge an obligation to use his or her best
effort to assure that use of the premises by a short-term rental tenant will
not disrupt the neighborhood and will not interfere with the rights of
neighboring property owners to the quiet enjoyment of their properties.
   (D)   The City Manager or a designee shall have the authority to obtain
additional information from the applicant as necessary to achieve the
objectives of this chapter.
   (E)   A nonrefundable fee of $400 for the initial dwelling unit and an
additional fee of $150 for each additional approved dwelling unit, shall
accompany the initial registration of a short-term rental. A host only needs to
apply for a conditional use permit with their initial application and all
approved short-term rentals prior to the enactment of this chapter are exempt
from a conditional use permit so long as there are no substantive changes
related to the host or dwelling unit. New owners of the property and subsequent
hosts are required to apply for a conditional use permit.
   (F)   Each registration shall be renewed annually for a fee of $350 for the
first initial dwelling unit and an additional fee of $100 for each additional
approved dwelling unit. This fee allows the city to process, regulate, enforce
and inspect to make sure the public is protected.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 119.03 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   Each separate short-term rental shall be in compliance with any currently
applicable laws and regulations of the federal, state or local governments, as
may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, laws or
regulations on nondiscrimination, zoning, building, safety, property
maintenance, health and sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and
other applicable laws.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 119.04 DUTIES OF HOST.
   It shall be the duty of a host to ensure that:
   (A)   The short-term rental meets the smoke detector requirements set forth
by the City Fire Department and that a clearly marked evacuation plan is posted
on the premises;
   (B)   There shall be no more than one contract per short-term rental at a
time;
   (C)   At no time shall more persons reside in the short-term rental than two
times the number of bedrooms;
   (D)   There is no signage on the premises of the short-term rental
advertising or identifying the short-term rental;
   (E)   There shall be no short-term rentals that are in any structure other
than a dwelling that fully complies with the City Residential Zoning Code. No
short-term rental shall occur in any recreational vehicle, motor home, camper,
barn, building not originally intended for residential purposes or similar
structure or vehicle; and
   (F)   They have the ability to appear on the premises of any short-term
rental unit within one hour following notification from that occupants of the
short-term rental unit have created unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged
in disorderly conduct, overcrowding, consumption of illegal drugs or excess
alcohol; or other issues related to the use or occupancy of the premises.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 119.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city is authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter through
declaratory, injunctive and other civil actions filed in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Accumulated violations. When a host has accumulated two violations for
the same unit within a period of 12 consecutive months, the city shall revoke
any pending or issued licenses and revoke all applications for that particular
property for a period of 12 consecutive months from the date of the final
decision.
   (B)   Operating without a license. Operating a short-term rental without a
license shall constitute a civil offense and any person who violates this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of up to $500 per day. In addition, a
person guilty of operating a short-term rental without a license shall be
ineligible to apply for a license for that particular property for a period of
12 consecutive months from the date of the final decision.
(Ord. 905-2023, passed 12-18-2023)
CHAPTER 120: ECONOMIC INCENTIVES FOR BUSINESSES
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Incentive qualifications and certification
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL PERIOD. The first period of 12 consecutive calendar months after the
commencement date designated in an application for the city incentive
established by this chapter and each period of 12 consecutive months
thereafter,
   COMMENCEMENT DATE. The day designated in an application for the city
incentive established by this chapter as the day of the beginning of the first
annual period.
   ELIGIBLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. Any franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other business within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280 and 92.281 and §
181 of the State Constitution, other than:
      (1)   Business activities of sexually oriented businesses or sexual
encounter establishments as elsewhere defined and regulated in other ordinances
of the city; and
      (2)   Business activities which receive incentives from the state that
involve occupational license fees for which the city already is contributing to
those incentives.
(Ord. 893-2022, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 120.02 INCENTIVE QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   No employer shall be eligible for the city incentive established by
this chapter without a valid certification by the Mayor that the proposed new
or expanded eligible business activity is qualified for it.
   (B)   A new or existing employer who is proposing to engage in any new or
expanded eligible business activity in the city may qualify for the city
incentive established in this chapter by submitting a written application for
it to the city with all of the information required by the city, which shall
include, without limitation:
      (1)   Information about the organizational structure of the employer and
the owners thereof;
      (2)   The business history of the employer;
      (3)   A description of the proposed new or expanded eligible business
activity, including, without limitation, the location of it, along with the
plans and anticipated cost of any new construction;
      (4)   An explanation of how the proposed new or expanded eligible
business activity will promote the public purpose of relieving unemployment
through new jobs and employment in the city that would not exist but for the
city incentive;
      (5)   A description of the functions and duties of each proposed position
of employment in the proposed new or expanded eligible business activity, along
with the number of those positions and range of compensation for each of them;
      (6)   An explanation for how the business and the proposed new or
expanded business activity meets any of the following factors:
         (a)   Directly increase future revenue/job creation in the city;
         (b)   Significantly decrease blight within the city;
         (c)   The businesses proposed new or expanded capital improvement will
significantly increase the property tax value; and
         (d)   The businesses proposed new or expanded capital improvement will
significantly improve previously documented environmental hazards contained/
contaminated on the property.
      (7)   A commencement date for the proposed new or expanded capital
improvement or increase in payroll.
   (C)   An application for the city incentive established in this chapter
shall be reviewed by the Mayor of the city for completeness, accuracy and
compliance with this chapter; but the Mayor shall not certify that the proposed
new or expanded eligible business activities qualify for the city incentive
unless it is reasonable to believe from the information provided in the
application and the Mayor believes and is satisfied that:
      (1)   The proposed new or expanded eligible business activity proposed in
the application will promote the public purpose of relieving unemployment
through new jobs and employment in eligible business activities in the city
that would not exist but for the city incentive;
      (2)   In the new jobs and employment developed in the new eligible
business activity proposed in the application, the employer will actually pay
during each annual period total gross wages for work and labor of employees
engaged in eligible business activities in the city in excess of $750,000 for
those employed in an area of the city. An existing employer may also qualify if
it has $750,000 in total gross wages and has incurred $500,000 in capital
improvements within 12 months of the application; and
      (3)   The proposed new or expanded business activity and/or capital
improvements meet at least one of the following factors:
         (a)   Directly increase future revenue/job creation in the city;
         (b)   Significantly decrease blight within the city;
         (c)   The businesses proposed new or expanded capital improvement will
significantly increase the property fax value; and
         (d)   The businesses proposed new or expanded capital improvement will
significantly improve previously documented environmental hazards contained/
contaminated on the property.
   (D)   In the event that it is reasonable to believe and the Mayor does
believe and is satisfied from the information provided in the application that
the new or expanded eligible business activity proposed in the application will
conform to the requirements in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) and (C)(3) above, the
Mayor may certify in writing to the employer that the proposed new or expanded
eligible business activities qualify for the city incentive established in this
chapter. The Mayor shall look at the provisions of divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) and
(C)(3) above and shall consider all other incentives previously or currently
offered to the employer prior to approving the application.
(Ord. 893-2022, passed 9-22-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Panhandlers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any un-emancipated, including, but not limited to, unmarried,
person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased, any person of the
age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public right-of-way, public assembly, building, place, street or location or
business open to the public.
      TRAVEL. To walk, drive or otherwise proceed along a sidewalk, street,
highway or any other public right-of-way.
   (B)   Curfew.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, location or business
open to the public, or to travel along a sidewalk, street, highway or other
public right-of-way within the city at night during the following periods:
         (a)   12:00 a.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
         (b)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
         (c)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (d)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (e)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday;
         (f)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday; and
         (g)   12:00 a.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to remain
in or upon any public assembly, building, place, location or business open to
the public, or travel upon a sidewalk, street, highway or other public right-
of-way within the city when the child is required to be in attendance at either
public or private school, unless the child is accompanied by a parent, guardian
or other adult person having written documentation having care and custody of
the child or is on an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed by
a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
child.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to knowingly allow the minor to be or remain in or upon a
public assembly, building, place, location or business open to the public, or
to travel upon a sidewalk, street, highway or other public right-of-way in the
city under circumstances not constituting an exception as enumerated in
division (C) below during the time periods contained in division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) above.
   (C)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases, a minor remaining in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, location or business open to the
public, or traveling upon any sidewalk, street, highway or other public right-
of-way in the city during the hours provided for in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2)
above shall not be considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian as defined in
division (A) above;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult having written authorization of a
parent or guardian of such minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; provided, that a written notice signed by the minor
and countersigned by a parent or guardian is in the possession of such minor
specifying when, where and in what manner said minor will be exercising such
First Amendment rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent
or guardian has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing
such reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association; provided, that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
      (7)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor or City Council
in cases of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be
dealt with on an individual basis. The regulation should be issued sufficiently
in advance to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies
such as the schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the
use of the public assembly, building, place, location or business open to the
public, sidewalk, street, highway or other public right-of-way permitted, and
the period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time
for termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation
is reasonably necessary. The City Clerk/Treasurer or Mayor shall notify the
Police Department of this information;
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
state authorize a minor to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver;
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle; or
      (11)   When the minor is participating in a school related activity.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, location or business open to the
public, sidewalk, street, highway or other public right-of-way reasonably
believed to be in violation of this section, may cite the minor for a criminal
violation. The police officer may then proceed to transport the child to the
safety of the child’s home, school and/or to his or her parents or guardians.
      (2)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, location or business open to the
public, street or highway whose parent is believed to be in violation of this
section may confront such minor and request such information as his or her
name, age, address of his or her parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   If a child is under suspension from school, the child shall not be
returned to the school where the suspension is in effect unless authorized by
that school’s authorities.
      (4)   Either the child or the parent/guardian may be cited, but not both
for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 801-2015, passed 9-11-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PANHANDLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to approach within three feet of a motor
vehicle that is stopped at any intersection, as defined in KRS 189.010(4), and
in the city, with the purpose of receiving a contribution from an occupant of
the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 884-2021, passed 11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   For the first 30 days immediately following the enactment of §
130.01, all persons found in violation of §
130.01 shall be issued a warning for the first offense. A second offense within
the 30-day period shall be treated as a first offense as defined below.
      (2)   A person found to be in violation of §
130.01 shall be assessed a fine of not more than $100.
      (3)   A person found to be in violation of §
130.01 for a second time within a six-month period shall be assessed a fine of
not more than $250.
      (4)   A person found to be in violation of this section for a third time
within a six-month period shall be assessed a fine of not more than $500.
      (5)   A person found to be in violation of this section may in lieu of a
fine perform community service at a rate of ten hours of community service for
every $100 in fines.
   (C)   The violation of §
130.02 is a Class B misdemeanor. A criminal fine pursuant to KRS 534.040(2)(b),
or a term of imprisonment pursuant to KRS 532.090(2), or both, may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 801-2015, passed 9-11-2015; Ord. 884-2021, passed
11-30-2021)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of State Code
   
150.01   Adoption of State Building Code and Standards of Safety; enforcement
agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
Electric Regulations
   
150.15   Purpose; city not liable for electrical wiring or equipment
   
150.16   Building permit required; notification of electric inspection service
   
150.17   Wiring to be free from hazard
   
150.18   Authority of Electric Inspection Service
   
150.19   Fee for inspection
   
150.20   Electric Inspection Service to furnish certificate of approval to city
   
150.21   Furnishing electrical current to structure prior to inspection and
issuance of certificate of approval prohibited
   
150.22   Contractors to have city occupational license; revocation for
noncompliance
Improvements in Annexed Areas
   
150.35   Improvements to streets, sewers, water lines and the like
   
150.36   Property owners abutting annexed area may request a stage improvement
   
150.37   City to consult engineer concerning improvements
   
150.38   Contract for improvements to go to lowest, best bidder
   
150.39   Improvements to extend to property located in present city limits
which abuts annexed territory upon petition
   
150.40   Costs to be assessed by the front foot; due with regular taxes
immediately following completion of improvements; exception
   
150.41   Upon petition, improvements to be designated as stage or complete
improvement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF STATE CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY; ENFORCEMENT
AGENTS.
   The State Building Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:090 by the State Board
of Housing, Building and Construction; the State Plumbing Code, as contained in
815 KAR Chapter 20; the State Standards of Safety, as contained in 815 KAR
Chapter 10, together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above Codes and any
amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours. The Chief Codes Enforcement Officer shall be designated as the
local enforcement agent for the State Building Code. The Chief Codes
Enforcement Officer and all other designated officers, agents and employees of
the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the
standards of safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 556-1997, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
ELECTRIC REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 PURPOSE; CITY NOT LIABLE FOR ELECTRICAL WIRING OR EQUIPMENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the public safety
of the citizens of the city and, to the greatest extent possible, protect their
property, by establishing a standard for the installation of electrical wiring
and equipment promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association. The city
does not assume liability for electrical wiring done, or electrical equipment
installed, by virtue of requiring such to be inspected by a certified
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 150.16 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; NOTIFICATION OF ELECTRIC INSPECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   All electrical wiring, including re-wiring and additions to existing
wiring, before commencement thereof, require a building permit from the city.
   (B)   Before commencing the wiring, re-wiring or additions to existing
wiring or the installation of electrical equipment and devices within the city,
the property owner or his or her contractor shall apply for a building permit
with the administrative official of the city setting forth the scope of work to
be done. The city will transmit a copy of the building permit to the Electric
Inspection Service. No work shall commence until the Service has been notified.
(Prior Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 WIRING TO BE FREE FROM HAZARD.
   All electrical wiring in the city shall, when installed for the purpose of
being connected to a source of electrical energy, be sufficiently insulated,
supported and protected to be free from hazards to life and property caused by
over-loading, short-circuiting and improper protection or installation of
electrical equipment.
(Prior Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 AUTHORITY OF ELECTRIC INSPECTION SERVICE.
   The Electric Inspection Service, a duly recognized electrical inspection
service operating within the state, is hereby designated and authorized to make
the necessary inspections in order to ascertain whether or not the provisions
of this subchapter are being fully met.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 FEE FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Electric Inspection Service shall have the right to charge a
reasonable fee, which shall be full and complete compensation for services
rendered by it in the making of the inspections, which fee shall also include
the rendering of a written report. The fee shall be paid by the contractor or
persons or persons performing or installing the electrical wiring or equipment,
and no part thereof shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   The fees to be charged and paid for the inspections and the issuing of
the certificate of approval hereinafter provided for shall be in accordance
with the recognized scale of fees charged for similar work and inspections by
the Electric Inspection Service and shall not be in excess thereof.
(Prior Code, § 150.19) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20 ELECTRIC INSPECTION SERVICE TO FURNISH CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL TO
CITY.
   The Electric Inspection Service shall furnish to the city a certificate
approving the rough-in wiring and shall furnish to the city a certificate
approving the wiring when installation is complete.
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 150.21 FURNISHING ELECTRICAL CURRENT TO STRUCTURE PRIOR TO INSPECTION AND
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including any
supplier of electricity, to connect with or furnish electrical current to any
structure within the corporate limits of the city, until after the electrical
installation shall have been inspected and approved by the service, and a
certificate of approval issued by the service, and filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 CONTRACTORS TO HAVE CITY OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE; REVOCATION FOR
NONCOMPLIANCE.
   All contractors who perform electrical wiring in the city or who install
electrical equipment shall possess the required city occupational license.
Should any contractor possessing an occupational license from the city fail to
abide by the terms of this subchapter, such failure shall be grounds for the
revocation of his or her occupational license.
(Prior Code, § 150.22) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
IMPROVEMENTS IN ANNEXED AREAS
§ 150.35 IMPROVEMENTS TO STREETS, SEWERS, WATER LINES AND THE LIKE.
   Upon the annexation and inclusion in the corporate limits of the city any
areas, lands or territories after the effective date of this subchapter, the
lands, areas or territories shall receive the following construction,
reconstruction or improvement of public ways, water lines, streets, street
improvements, sewers, sewerage system improvements and sidewalk improvement.
   (A)   Water lines of not less than four inches in diameter, and all
necessary fireplugs, so as to provide adequate water service and fire
protection to all lots and parcels of land. The construction, reconstruction or
improvements of the water lines and fireplugs are to be completed and accepted
by the city not later than December 31 of the first full calendar year
following the annexation and inclusion of the areas, lands or territories in
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Sidewalks, curbs, at least 20 feet apart, culverts and storm sewers,
making use of any existing facility if properly located and in good condition,
shall be completed and accepted by the city not later than December 31 of the
second full calendar year following the annexation and inclusion in the
corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Hard surface streets, of concrete or “blacktop” shall be built from
curb to curb, completed and accepted by the city not later than December 31 of
the third full calendar year following the annexation and inclusion in the
corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   Each assessment for the construction, reconstruction or stage
improvements outlined in each of divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall be
separate and distinct assessments, and each assessment may be for as much as
necessary to provide the construction, reconstruction or improvements outlined
in each division, not to exceed the limit set by law on each such assessment.
(Prior Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.36 PROPERTY OWNERS ABUTTING ANNEXED AREA MAY REQUEST A STAGE IMPROVEMENT.
   Upon presentation to the City Council of the city, in regular meeting a
petition signed by a majority of the property owners whose lots or parcels of
land abut on the public ways, the water lines, streets, street improvements,
sewers and sewerage system improvements, water line improvements, sidewalk
improvements or sewers to be constructed, reconstructed or improved as outlined
in §
150.35(A), (B) and (C), requesting that all of the construction, reconstruction
or improvements be completed not later than December 31 of the first full
calendar year following annexation and to be paid for by use of the installment
plan, then the petition shall be granted and executed by the City Council and
shall be termed a stage improvement.
(Prior Code, § 150.36) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.37 CITY TO CONSULT ENGINEER CONCERNING IMPROVEMENTS.
   A competent engineer shall be consulted by the City Council in regard to all
construction, reconstruction or improvements brought about by this subchapter.
Costs of the engineer’s advice and services shall be included in the total
costs of the construction, reconstruction or improvements and shall be assessed
against the abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 150.37) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.38 CONTRACT FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO GO TO LOWEST, BEST BIDDER.
   The City Council shall by ordinance let the contract for each and all
construction, reconstruction or improvements to the lowest and best bidder
after properly advertising for bids according to law.
(Prior Code, § 150.38) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.39 IMPROVEMENTS TO EXTEND TO PROPERTY LOCATED IN PRESENT CITY LIMITS
WHICH ABUTS ANNEXED TERRITORY UPON PETITION.
   (A)   The City Council shall construct, reconstruct or improve public ways,
the water lines, streets, street improvements, water line improvements,
sidewalk improvements, sewers and sewerage system improvement and sewers
located in the present corporate limits of the city upon presentation of a
petition to the City Council in regular meeting, signed by a majority of the
property owners whose lots or parcels of land abut the public ways, the water
lines, streets, street improvements, water line improvements, sidewalk
improvements, sewers and sewerage system improvement or sewers to be
constructed, reconstructed or improved.
   (B)   The petitions shall specify the construction, or improvements desired,
and shall further specify the method of payment by the property owners. The
City Council will approve either a full assessment for all costs or will
arrange payment through the installment plan as provided in state law.
(Prior Code, § 150.39) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.40 COSTS TO BE ASSESSED BY THE FRONT FOOT; DUE WITH REGULAR TAXES
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The total cost of each and all of the aforementioned construction,
reconstruction or improvements of public ways, water lines, streets, street
improvements, water line improvements, sidewalk improvement, sewers and
sewerage system improvement, or sewers shall be assessed equally by the front
foot on the lots or parcels of land abutting on the construction,
reconstruction or improvements.
   (B)   The assessments shall become due and payable with the regular city
taxes immediately following completion of the construction, reconstruction or
improvements for which the assessment was made, or else as provided for by §
150.39(B).
(Prior Code, § 150.40) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.41 UPON PETITION, IMPROVEMENTS TO BE DESIGNATED AS STAGE OR COMPLETE
IMPROVEMENT.
   The City Council when a petition is presented, as outlined in §
150.39(A) or (B), for the improvement, construction or reconstruction of any of
the public ways, the water lines, streets, street improvements, water line
improvements, sidewalk improvement, sewers or sewerage system improvement shall
determine whether such improvement is to be designated as a stage or complete
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 150.41) (Ord. 122, passed 2-6-1951)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code, the Uniform State
Residential Code or any directive or order issued pursuant thereto, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for
each offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (C)   Any person, firm, co-operative association and supplier of electricity
which violates any of the provisions of §§
150.15 through 150.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500, plus court costs, for each offense. Each day
that the person, firm, co-operative association and supplier of electricity
violates any provision of §§
150.15 through 150.23 constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 343, passed 12-10-1979)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
Planning Commission
   
151.15   Powers and duties
   
151.16   Fee Schedule
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan, Grant County, Kentucky, 1990, consisting of and
containing the Table of Contents and the following separate and topic specified
numerical chapters: Introduction; Goals and Objectives; Environment;
Population; Economy; Transportation; Housing; Community Facilities and
Services; Land Use; and Implementation together with appendices, lists of
tables and lists of figures attached and a part thereof and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein. Copies of said Plan are available for
public inspection during normal hours at the city building.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 466-1991, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 662-2004, passed
9-2-2004)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.15 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   From and after the time when the joint City-County Planning Commission shall
have been organized and selected its officers, together with the adoption of
its rules of procedure, then the Commission shall have all the powers, duties
and responsibilities as set forth in KRS Chapter 100.
(Prior Code, § 151.12) (Ord. 233, passed 12-7-1965; Ord. 377-1982, passed 8-2-
1982)
§ 151.16 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following fees shall be charged by the County Planning Commission
for the purposes enumerated.
Description Fee
Description                                                                    Fee
Appeals and variances:
   Residential uses                                                         $50
   Any other use                                                            $100
Comprehensive Plan change:
   As a part of a requested zoning change                                   No
                                                                               charge
   When requested and not a part of a zoning change application             $150
Conditional use applications:
   In Agricultural and Residential 1, 2 and 3 Zones                         $50
   In Residential 4 and 5 Residential Mobile Home Parks                     $75
   In Highway Commercial, Neighborhood Commercial and Neighborhood Shopping $200
Center Zones
Copies of documents:
   Comprehensive Plan                                                       $15
                                                                               $0.25
   Photocopies, any size 8-1/2 x 14-inch single sheets                      per
                                                                               page
   Subdivision regulations                                                  $15
   Zoning ordinance                                                         $15
Plat approvals:
   Convenience plat                                                         $15
   Final plat                                                               $50
   Improvement plat                                                         $75
   Minor subdivision plat                                                   $100
   Preliminary plat                                                         $100
   Special meetings (special called meetings not regularly scheduled):      $300
Sign permits:
   Billboards                                                               $175
   Business sign; building mounted                                          $60
   Business sign; ground mounted                                            $60
   Home occupation                                                          $30
   Temporary commercial display                                             $35
Site plan review:
   In A1, R1, R3 and RMHP                                                   $75
   In HC, NC and NSC zones                                                  $125
   In Industrial zones                                                      $175
   In R4 and R5 zones                                                       $125
Zone change:
   Map amendment                                                            $150
   Postponement or continuance of scheduled public hearing on zone change
application unless preceded by at least seven days written notice to the       $150
Chairperson of the Planning Commission
   Text amendment                                                           $150
Zoning permits:
   In any zone                                                              $25
 
   (B)   All fees are payable at the time the application is filed or action is
requested and shall not be refundable.
   (C)   No application shall be accepted by the County Planning Commission nor
any action taken by the County Planning Commission until the required fee has
been paid.
   (D)   All ordinances, resolutions and/or orders or parts thereof in conflict
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Prior Code, § 151.13) (Ord. 423-1987, passed - -1987)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   City Tree Board; establishment
   
152.03   Term of office
   
152.04   Compensation
   
152.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
152.06   Operation; quorum
   
152.07   List of allowable species
   
152.08   Spacing
   
152.09   Distance from curbs, sidewalks and power lines
   
152.10   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
152.11   Public tree care
   
152.12   Tree topping
   
152.13   Pruning; corner clearance
   
152.14   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
152.15   Interference with City Tree Board
   
152.16   Arborists license and bond
   
152.17   Review by City Council
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or rights-
of-way within the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.02 CITY TREE BOARD; ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board, which shall
consist of seven members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor upon the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the seven persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first Board
shall be for only two years, and the remaining three members appointed to the
first Board shall be appointed for a term of three years. In the event of a
vacancy during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed
for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 97.03) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 97.04) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel, develop and update annually and administer a written plan
for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and, upon its
acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan
for the city.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matters of
concern or question coming within the scope of its work, duties and
responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 97.05) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.06 OPERATION; QUORUM.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations
and keep a journal, record or minutes of its findings. A majority of the
members of the entire Board shall be a quorum for the transaction and conduct
of business.
(Prior Code, § 97.06) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.07 LIST OF ALLOWABLE SPECIES.
   The Tree Board will formulate an official street tree species list for the
city. The list of allowable species shall be broken down into categories of
small, medium and large trees. No species other than those included in this
list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the City Tree
Board.
(Prior Code, § 97.07) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.08 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with the three species
classifications referred to in §
152.07, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet, except in
special plantings so designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(Prior Code, § 97.08) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 DISTANCE FROM CURBS, SIDEWALKS AND POWER LINES.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks
shall be in accordance with the three species size classification listed in §
152.07, and no trees shall be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet. Only small trees shall be planted within 15 feet of power lines.
(Prior Code, § 97.09) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 97.10) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The
City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvements, or is affected or infected with any injurious fungus,
insect or other pest.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners; provided, however, that the selection and location of
the trees is in accordance with §
152.07 through
152.10.
(Prior Code, § 97.11) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.12 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back
of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown
to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may
be exempt from this chapter at the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 97.12) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
sidewalk, street or right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees or broken or decaying limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub
on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along
the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-
control device or sign.
(Prior Code, § 97.13) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.14 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a
hazard to life or property, or harbor insects or diseases which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board shall
notify in writing the owners of such trees requiring removal under this
section. Any removal shall be done and effected by the owners at their own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of the written notice referred
to herein.
   (B)   In the event a noticed owner fails to comply with the removal
provisions herein, the city shall so have the right and authority to remove
such trees and charge the cost and expenses of removal being a lien upon the
person of the owner/owners and a lien upon the real property upon which the
tree/trees be situated which lien may be enforced and collected by permitted
legal action and, further, the cost and expenses of removal shall be listed and
included upon the owner’s tax bill for the year of removal and so paid by the
owner in addition to taxes listed thereupon.
(Prior Code, § 97.14) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board or any of its agents, servants or employees while engaging in
or about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of
any street tree, park tree or trees on public grounds as authorized in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.15) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
limits of the city without first applying for and obtaining a separate permit
or license for such activity which license/permit shall be in addition to the
occupational license/permit required of the city for business and activities
engaged in within the incorporated limits of the city pursuant to due ordinance
of the city.
   (B)   The arborist license/permit referred to herein shall be applied for
annually at a cost of $28 paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer at the time such
application is made upon the form provided by the City Clerk/Treasurer; and
such applicant for an arborist license/permit shall file evidence that such
applicant has current and continued insurance coverages issued by insurance
companies licensed to write and issue policies of insurance within the state
with the applicant having insurance coverages in the minimum amounts of $28,000
for bodily injury and $25,000 for property damage indemnifying the city and any
person who may be injured or suffer damages resulting from the conduct,
activities and the pursuits of the applicant.
   (C)   The herein requirements of separate arborists license/permit and
insurance coverages shall not apply to employees, assigns and agents of the
city nor to any public service company doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors or city employment.
(Prior Code, § 97.16) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the right and authority to review the
conduct, acts, actions, determinations and decisions of the City Tree Board.
Any person may appeal from any ruling, decision, entry or order of the Tree
Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make the final
determination.
   (B)   Such appeals shall be in writing made within 30 days of the date of
the entry, decision or ruling of the Tree Board. Such appeal shall be filed
with the City Clerk/Treasurer, state the reasons or grounds for the appellant’s
grievance or complaint and have attached thereto a photocopy duplicate of the
Tree Board’s entry, decision or order giving rise to an appeal. Upon receipt of
the foregoing, the Clerk/Treasurer shall note thereon, the date and time of
receipt and notify the Mayor and the members of the City Council of the appeal.
Thereafter, the matter shall be set for a public hearing within 30 days of the
receipt of the appeal or set upon the agenda at Council’s next regular meeting
or upon the agenda of a special meeting called to hear the matter raised by an
appeal. Within 30 days of the date of the hearing set for hearing an appeal,
the Council shall, in writing, make its decision and ruling which shall be
deemed a final order allowing all parties in interest and having standing to
take an appeal of the decision of the Council to the circuit court as provided
by law and statute.
(Prior Code, § 97.17) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of $500, confinement in the County Jail for a term of 12
months, or both such confinement and fine.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
152.15 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be fined $250,
confined in the County Jail for 90 days or both such confinement and fine.
(Prior Code, § 97.99) (Ord. 488-1992, passed 10-5-1992)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
   
153.02   Charges assessed to defray or compensate for expenses incurred
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The municipal zoning ordinance and zoning map, and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning ordinance and zoning map are available for public
inspection during normal business hours at the City Building.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 380, passed 11-1-1982; Ord. 384, passed 2-15-1983;
Ord. 388, passed 8-8-1983; Ord. 391-1984, passed 1-10-1984; Ord. 440-1989,
passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 443-1989, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 467-1991, passed 6-3-
1991; Ord. 483-1992, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 525-1994, passed 1-5-1995; Ord. 541-
1996, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 543-1996, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 555-1997, passed
4-7-1997; Ord. 560-1997, passed 6-13-1997; Ord. 564-1997, passed 8-8-1997; Ord.
572-1998, passed 2-2-1998; Ord. 576-1998, passed 6-24-1998; Ord. 577-1998,
passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 578-1998, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 579-1998, passed 9-14-
1998; Ord. 590-1999, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 591-1999, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 592-
1999, passed 7-12-1999; Ord. 594-1999, passed 8-23-1999; Ord. 601-2000, passed
1-3-2000; Ord. 615-2001, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 626-2002, passed 5-6-2002; Ord.
627-2002, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 632-2002, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 637-2003,
passed 4-7-2003; Ord. 643-2003, passed 8-4-2003; Ord. 652-2003, passed 12-1-
2003; Ord. 654-2004, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 660-2004, passed 9-2-2004; Ord. 665-
2005, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. 670-2005, passed 5-9-2005; Ord. 682-2005, passed
11-14-2005; Ord. 683-2005, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 684-2005, passed 11-14-2005;
Ord. 685-2005, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 686-2005, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 687-
2005, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 692-2006, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 714-2007, passed
6-18-2007; Ord. 731-2008, passed 7-21-2008; Ord. 736-2008, passed 10-20-2008;
Ord. 746-2009, passed 6-1-2009; Ord. 754-2010, passed 7-19-2010; Ord. 767-2012,
passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 768-2012, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 806-2016, passed 3-7-
2016; Ord. 807-2016, passed 3-7-2016; Ord. 808-2016, passed 3-7-2016; Ord. 809-
2016, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 810-2016, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 811-2016, passed
8-15-2016; Ord. 812-2016, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 813-2016, passed 8-15-2016;
Ord. 814-2016, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 815-2016, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 853-
2018, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 858-2019, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 859-2019, passed
3-18-2019; Ord. 860-2019, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 862-2019, passed 6-10-2019;
Ord. 887-2021, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 891-2022, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 904-
2023, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 908-2024, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 153.02 CHARGES ASSESSED TO DEFRAY OR COMPENSATE FOR EXPENSES INCURRED.
   (A)   All applicants requesting a zoning change/amendment to the city zoning
map official shall provide the city with a surveyed and scaled map, plat or
drawing of the parcel or property real to be rezoned and surveyor’s legal
description of the parcel or property to be rezoned which matches the foregoing
scaled map, plat or drawing of the parcel or property real.
   (B)   All applicants receiving affirmative relief granting a zoning change/
amendment to city zoning map official shall pay to the city the city’s cost
actual to make and effect an amendment to the city’s Official Zoning Map, which
cost shall be not less than the sum and amount of $125.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 574-1998, passed 3-9-1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DE-ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   STREET OPENINGS; DESIGNATIONS; CLOSINGS; NAMING
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DE-ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
      9-2-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point on the north side of Broadway
78    1935   Street at the intersection of north line of the right-of-way of Broadway
             Street and the west line of the corporate limits of the city.
             Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the north line of the
      10-1-  right-of-way of Broadway Street at the intersection of the west line of the
79    1935   corporate limits of the city. This boundary includes Broadway Street from the
             Baptist Church lot to the west line of the Baptist Church parsonage lot a
             distance of 850 feet.
      12-3-  De-annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the west line of the old
80    1935   corporation line of the city at a point 150 feet south of the south line of
             the right-of-way of Broadway Street.
      10-1-  Annexing certain territory beginning at intersection of old corporation line
95    1940   back of Porter Roland in a southerly course back of Craig Webb’s home to the
             south school line, 394 feet.
      10-1-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the old corporation line of
107   1946   the south school line 200 feet west of the west side of the right-of-way of
             the Dixie Highway.
             Amending a previous annexation ordinance, annexing certain territory beginning
147   5-6-   at a point in the present corporate limits of the city, 150 feet south of the
      1952   centerline of Broadway and in the common property line between F.M. Neal and
             E.F. Blackburn.
168   5-15-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a point at the southwest corner of the
      1956   corporate line of the city, which crosses Taft Highway or State Highway 22.
      9-2-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point at the northwest corner of the
182   1958   corporate limits of the city the west line of which crosses the Taft Highway
             or State Highway 22.
             Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the northwest line of the
187   1-5-   corporate limits of the city, in Darwin and Christine Skirvin’s property on
      1960   the south side of Warsaw Street, 15 feet more or less from the center of
             Warsaw Street.
      6-6-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the present corporate line
200   1961   300 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Taft Highway and 30 feet west
             of the centerline of McCoy Road.
      8-1-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a bench mark on the west side of the
202   1961   Southern Railway in the line of the city limits, thence following the city
             limits S 60 1/2 W 200 feet to an iron pipe corner to Webb Hutchinson.
230   9-7-   Annexing certain territory beginning at the city limits on State Highway 22
      1965   (Taft Highway) and at a corner to Tract 3 and the Taft Highway.
      11-2-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a corner point in the city corporate
231   1965   limits on the line between the property of W.O. Blackburn and the right-of-way
             for Interstate 75.
      12-24- Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the center of the
234   1965   intersection of Main Street (Hwy. U.S. 25) and West Broadway (Hwy. State Route
             22).
             Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the city boundary, the
245   5-5-   point being a corner to O.E. Poore and the annexation to the city by Ord. 202,
      1967   the point also being N. 84-00 W 524.4 feet from the northeast corner of the
             Poore tract.
270   10-3-  Annexing the following four tracts of land:
      1972
             Tract 1 and 2. Beginning at a corner point in the city corporate limits on the
           line between the property of Edwin Gibson and Kinman Construction Co., Inc.,
             which point is in the southern right-of-way line of State Highway 22.
             Tract 3. Beginning at a corner point in the city limits on the line between
           the property of Edwin Gibson and Emery Whaley, which point is in the northern
             right-of-way line of State Highway 22.
           Tract 4. Beginning at call (9) in Tract 3 above; thence southeast 412.5 feet
             to (13) a point in the northern right-of-way line to State Highway 22.
337-  9-10-  Annexing the following four described territories:
1979  1979
           Tract 1. Being Lot 140 of the subdivision, beginning at a point in McCoy-
             Conrad Land north 5 degrees 15 minutes east 555 feet corner to Lot 141.
           Tract 2. Being Lot 141, beginning at a point in the McCoy-Conrad Lane corner
             to Lot 140 thence north 5 degrees 15 minutes east 500 feet.
           Tract 3. Beginning at a stone corner to J.H. Beatty, Northcutt (Bros.) and the
             Conrad (Bros.).
           Tract 4. Being Lots No. 139, 138, 137 of the Conrad Heights subdivision
             located on the Warsaw Pike and joining Lot 140.
339-  11-5-  Annexing the following two territories:
1979  1979
             Tract 1. Beginning at a point where the right-of-way of the access of the
           State Highway Department abutting U.S. Highway I-75 right-of-way on the west
             side joining the line of Bryon Cull.
             Tract 2. Beginning at a stone, corner to Roger Martin on the south side of the
           city and Jonesville Pike and with Roger Martin line north 25.02 poles to a
             stone and with J.D. Renaker line north 37 degrees, 15' West, 2.68 poles to
             post.
345   1-7-   Annexing the following two territories:
      1980
           Tract 1. Beginning at a stone and corner to Lot 2 in the east line of the
             right-of-way of the Cincinnati Southern Railway.
             Tract 2. One certain house and lot lying on the east side of the Cincinnati
           Southern Railroad, in the city and beginning at a point in the east side of
             the Railroad, and corner to R.H. Stevenson.
346   1-7-   Annexing the following two territories:
      1980
           Tract 1. Beginning on the plat a stone corner to C.D. Lewis heirs and a line
             of Burbin.
             Tact 2. Beginning at a stone and corner to Blaine and Stephenson; thence S 3/
           4 W 1000 2/3 feet to a stone in Stephenson’s line and on the north side of the
             drain.
460-  8-27-  Annexing the following two territories:
1990  1990
             Tract 1. Beginning at a point in the northern line of Lot 73 of Conrad Heights
           Subdivision from which point, the northeast corner of Lot 73 bears N 86 15'00"
             E, 475 feet to a point in the north line of Lot 74 of the subdivision.
           Tract 2. Beginning at a point, the common corner of Lots 60 and 61 with Lot 14
             of Conrad Heights Subdivision.
478-  2-3-   Annexing the following three parcels of land:
1992  1992
           Parcel One:
           Tract 1. Beginning at a point in the pike from which a stone bears S 10 E, 23
             feet.
           Tract 2. Beginning at a point in the city and Downingsville Pike, a corner to
             T.J. Pettit and Luke D. Renaker.
             Tract 3. Beginning at a point in the city and Downingsville Pike, a corner to
           W.B. Johnson and with his line S 3.15 E, 110 poles to a point in James Acree’s
             line.
             Parcel Two: Beginning at a point in the southerly right-of-way line of State
           Route 22, said point being 35 feet from the center of the road and being 1.6
             miles west of the center of the southbound lane of Interstate 75.
             Parcel Three: A tract or parcel of land lying and being on the south side of
           State Route 22 (Taft Highway) and on the south side of the old turnpike, now
             presumed to be a county road, said parcel being approximately 1.8 miles west
             of Interstate 75.
512-  5-6-   Proposal to annex 77.1993 acre parcel of land situated on the easterly side of
1994  1994   U.S. Highway 25 0.47 miles south of Knoxville Road.
517-  7-18-  Annexing a 77.1993 acre parcel of land situated on the easterly side of U.S.
1994  1994   Highway 25, 0.47 mile south of Knoxville Road and fixing zoning
             classification.
521-  10-3-  Proposal to annex five parcels of land approximately 63 acres of land situated
1994  1994   on the westerly side of Highway 2994.
521-  1-1-   Updating Ord. 521-1995 proposal to annex five parcels of land approximately 63
1994  1995   acres on Highway 2994 to correct zoning classification.
534-  10-2-  Annexing five parcels of land approximately 63 acres of land situated on the
1995  1995   westerly side of Highway 2994, and fixing zoning classification.
539-  5-6-   Annexing a 5.28 acre parcel of land situated on northerly side of State Route
1996  1996   22, 1.5 miles west of city benchmark, and fixing zoning classification.
550-  11-14- Annexing a 94.1 acre and 93.51 acre parcel of land situated on northerly side
1996  1996   of Baton Rouge Road, west of U.S. Highway 25, and fixing zoning
             classification.
558-  6-2-   Annexing two parcels of land:
1997  1997
           Approximately 92.9 acres of land located one mile southwest from the city on
             the Steers Road; and
           Approximately 39 acres of land on the city and Dowingsville Pike.
561-  6-13-  Annexing approximately 11.86 acres of land located along the right-of-way of
1997  1997   U.S. 25, 550 feet south of the Hogan crossing at 129 South Main Street.
622-  12-3-  De-annexing a parcel of land on the northerly side of Baton Rouge Road
2001  2001   containing 2.5454 acres, more or less.
624-  1-7-   Annexing five parcels of land:
2002  2002
             Approximately 79.4 acres of land located on the south side of Knoxville Road
           and east of the Southern Railroad right-of-way, and fixing zoning
             classification.
           Approximately 12.5 acres of land located east of the right-of-way of Southern
             Railroad, and fixing zoning classification.
           Approximately 20 acres of land located north of Warsaw Avenue, and fixing
             zoning classification.
           Approximately 21 acres of land located north of parcel (3), and fixing zoning
             classification.
           Approximately 21 acres of land located on Dixie Highway and adjoining the
             city, and fixing zoning classification.
642-  8-4-   Annexing approximately six acres of land located on the northerly side of
2003  2003   Warsaw Ave. and east of the McCoy Road.
678-  10-3-  Annexing three parcels of land:
2005  2005
           Approximately 109 acres of land on the westerly side of U.S. Highway 25 from
             Howard Brewer, Jr. and Betty Jean Brewer.
           Approximately 57 acres of land on the westerly side of U.S. Highway 25 from
             Ray Allen Porter and Cymantha Sue Porter.
           Approximately 15 acres of land on the easterly side of U.S. Highway 25 from
             C.L. Frank Distributors, Inc.
681-  11-7-  Annexing six parcels of land:
2005  2005
           Three parcels of land totally approximately 3.6375 acres of land on the
             southerly side of State Route 467 from Dorothy Beach.
           Approximately 0.3144 acres of land on the southerly side of State Route 467
             from Herbert Beach and Nina Beach.
           Approximately 0.4484 acres of land on the southerly side of State Route 467
             from Jerry Beach and Wanda Beach.
           Approximately 80.7980 acres of land on the northerly side of State Route 467
             from Heartland Inc. LLC.
702-  10-16- Annexing eight boundaries of land to the north of the city’s present corporate
2006  2006   limits and situated generally on the easterly side of I-75 and the westerly
             side of U.S. 25.
790-  11-17- Annexing approximately 2.01 acres lying on the west side of Frontage Road 6
2014  2014   (Service Road), west of I-75, north of State Route 22, Grant County.
885-  11-15- Annexing a parcel of property owned by Billy Ray Pelfrey and Bobbie Jo
2021  2021   Pelfrey.
            
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
97    12-3-  Providing for the issuance of revenue bonds not to exceed $3,500 for
      1940   the purpose of purchasing fire protection apparatus.
             Declaring necessary certain improvements and extensions to the
148   6-3-   waterworks system and authorizing the issue and sale of revenue bonds
      1952   in the amount of $35,000 in order to finance same and to finance the
             call for redemption of outstanding bonds of the water works system.
150   9-2-   Amending and correcting certain portions of Ordinance 148, passed 9-2-
      1952   1952.
206   3-6-   Providing for the issuance and sale of $16,500 of “Fire engine voted
      1962   tax bonds.”
237   3-2-   Amending Ordinance 206, passed 3-6-1962.
      1966
      1-4-   Authorizing the issuance of municipal revenue bonds in the principle
262   1971   amount of $75,000 payable in 20 years to finance the construction of a
             post office, city building and fire house in the city.
248   4-6-   Providing for and authorizing the issuance of $10,000 of street repair
      1971   bonds and the sale of same to a banking institution.
             Providing for the installment payment plan for improvement of New Del
335-  8-6-   Drive in the city, and providing for the issuance and sale of
1979  1979   improvement bonds in the amount of $11,939 to provide a fund for the
             payment of the improvement.
             Providing for the issuance of $209,000 Kentucky Utilities System
651-  10-6-  Revenue Bonds, Series 2003 for the purpose of financing the cost of
2003  2003   extensions, additions and improvements to the city’s water and sewer
             system.
            
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
161   4-5-   Authorizing the city to enter a contract with the State Agency of the Old-Age
      1955   and Survivors Insurance System.
205   12-5-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with T & W Ford Sales,
      1961   Williamstown, Kentucky for the furnishing of the cab and chassis.
Res.  11-5-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract for the sale to the
216   1963   City of Williamstown of approximately one mile of four-inch water main and
             easements.
             Authorizing the execution of the “interlocal cooperation agreement” to
422-  10-5-  establish the State Municipal Risk Management Association under which a joint
1987  1987   and cooperative program for self-insurance, insurance and the investment of
             public funds will be organized and financed.
432-  6-6-   Authorizing the city’s participation in the plan of prepayment of the bonded
1988  1988   indebtedness due and owing to the Farmers Home Administration incurred under
             the 1979 Sewer Bond Issue in the original sum and amount of $476,700.
437-  12-5-  Approving participation by the city in the State Municipal Risk Management
1988  1988   Association general insurance trust (a pooled self-insurance and insurance
             purchase program).
             Authorizing the participation of the city in the State Municipal League Pooled
450-  10-3-  Lease Financing Program; the financing through the program of improvements to
1989  1989   a city fire station; and the execution of a lease purchase agreement between
             the State Municipal Finance Corporation and the city.
462-  1-7-   Authorizing participation in the State League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
1990  1991
505-  11-1-  Authorizing the execution of an interlocal agreement to establish a Joint
1993  1993   Local Industrial Development Authority with the cities of Crittenden,
             Williamstown, Corinth and Grant County.
507-  1-3-   Approving participation in the Joint Local Industrial Development Authority.
1994  1994
530-  6-22-  Providing for the implementation of the County Public Safety Communications
1995  1995   Center, the levying of taxes and the purchase of equipment in cooperation with
             Grant County and the cities of Corinth, Crittenden and Williamstown.
             Amending Ord. 530-1995 by providing for certain changes of the County Public
568-  12-1-  Safety Communication Center, the levying of taxes and the purchase of
1997  1997   equipment with the county and the cities of Crittenden, Corinth, Dry Ridge and
             Williamstown.
593-  7-17-  Authorizing the Sewerage Pretreatment Program Administration Agreement with
1999  1999   the city of Williamstown as of May 3, 1999.
598-  10-4-  Adopting the joint and concurrent collective bidding procedures for
1999  1999   residential solid waste collection and removal of the cities of Corinth,
             Crittenden, Dry Ridge and Williamstown by interlocal action and agreement.
608-  5-25-  Providing for the consolidation of law enforcement functions with the county
2000  2000   by interlocal agreement.
644-  8-4-   Adopting the joint, concurrent and collective bidding procedures for
2003  2003   residential solid waste collection and removal of the cities of Corinth,
             Crittenden, Dry Ridge and Williamstown by interlocal action and agreement.
653-  12-1-  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the county fiscal court and the
2003  2003   cities of Corinth, Crittenden and Williamstown addressing the consolidation of
             Emergency Management Service functions within the county.
668-  5-2-   Adopting the current term of the CSI Solid Waste Collection and Removal
2005  2005   Contract beginning in the fiscal year 2005 and concluding in the fiscal year
             of 2007, as so beginning on or about September 1, 2005.
677-  9-19-  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the cities of Crittenden, Corinth
2005  2005   and Williamstown for the implementation of E911 services through the State
             Police. Repealing Ord. 674-2005, passed 7-11-2005.
708-  3-16-  Authorizing execution and delivery of grant contract and development agreement
2007  2007   regarding Dixie Taft Tax Increment Finance Development Area.
722-  1-21-  Approving a lease with State League of Cities Funding Trust for the financing
2008  2008   of a public project in a maximum principal amount not to exceed $140,000.
763-  10-3-  Establishing a new solid waste collection and removal contract between CSI and
2011  2011   the city.
802-  9-11-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of the acquisition and
2015  2015   installation of police cruisers, an ambulance and a service truck for the
             city.
803-  9-11-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of the acquisition and
2015  2015   installation of water reading equipment and water tower tank repairs.
824-  11-7-  Providing for the continuation of E911 services through the state police.
2016  2016
839-  10-2-  Establishing a new solid waste collection and removal contract between
2017  2017   Republic Services and the city.
841-  12-18- Amending the city’s E911 services agreement by terminating the E911 service
2017  2017   fee tax per telephone line per month.
Res.  2-21-  The city enters and adopts the Joinder Agreement with KDC for particulation in
2023- 2023   the 457 Plan and the 401(k) Plan for the benefit of eligible workers.
05
Res.  2-18-  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Crittenden Ambulance Service
2025- 2025   District and the Grant County Special Ambulance Taxing District for EMS
01           services.
            
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting an exclusive franchise to the Union Light
                          Heat and Power Company for a period of 20 years to
359-1980      1-5-1981    install and maintain facilities for the transmission
                          and distribution of electricity on public property
                          within the city.
                          Granting a CATV franchise for a term of 15 years to
402-1985      11-4-1985   Telestate Communications of Kentucky, Inc. for the
                          extension of cable TV services throughout the
                          corporate limits of the city.
                          Granting a 20-year franchise to the Union, Light,
445-1989      6-5-1989    Heat and Power Company to place gas transmission and
                          distribution facilities in public streets and places
                          in the city.
616-2001      6-4-2001    Granting a non-exclusive CATV franchise to Insight
                          Kentucky Partners II, L.P.
620-2001      10-1-2001   Granting a 20-year franchise to the Union, Light,
                          Heat and Power Company.
                          Granting a non-exclusive cable television system
804-2016      2-1-2016    franchise to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories,
                          LLC.
819-2016      7-11-2016   Granting a non-exclusive telephone system franchise
                          to Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company, LLC.
829-2017      5-1-2017    Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive
                          natural gas franchise for a duration of 15 years.
                          Granting Insight Kentucky Partners II, LLC (Spectrum)
856-2018      12-17-2018  a non-exclusive franchise for a cable television
                          system.
MO R-2020-01  12-21-2020  Transferring control of cable system franchise
                          agreement from Cincinnati Bell to Red Fiber.
                         
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Deeding to the state for the purpose of maintenance
                          the following city streets: State Route 22 from north
110           - -         city limits to south city limits, and Broadway (Taft
                          Highway) 22 from intersection of Main Street to west
                          city limits of Broadway.
426-1988      3-7-1988    Relocating and removing the Collins family cemetery
                          to another proper site and location according to law.
                         
 
TABLE VI: STREET OPENINGS; DEDICATIONS; CLOSINGS; NAMING
 
Ord./Res. Date      Description
No.       Passed
                    Authorizing and directing the City Attorney to institute
141       1-22-1952 an action for the closing of a ten-foot alley or passway
                    in the city beginning at a point in the southeast corner
                    to U.S. Highway 25.
247       6-6-1967  Providing for the closing of Ging Sang Alley, a public way
                    or alley situated in the city.
599-1999  11-1-1999 Dedicating Cull Lane to public use, a public right-of-way
                    and for maintenance and upkeep.
                    Closing as a public way the street known as Taft Center
605-2000  4-10-2000 Drive and removing it from the city’s street maintenance
                    system.
873-2020  6-13-2020 Naming the road on the south side of Ferguson Blvd as Sgt.
                    Daniel Wallace Way.
                   
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
433-  8-1-   Changing the zoning and classification of a 2.8-acre parcel of land of Thomas
1988  1988   Reeves situated on the south side of Highway No. 22 within the city from A-
             1 and R-1 to NC.
434-  8-1-   Changing the zoning and classification of three parcels of land owned by
1988  1988   Charles R. Rider, Jr. and Sharon S. Rider being on the south side of the Warsaw
             Avenue within the city from A-1 to R-4.
             Changing the zoning and classification of that 26.7332-acre parcel situated on
436-  12-5-  the west side of U.S. Highway 25 in the city and owned by Charles L. Rider, Jr.
1988  1988   and Sharon S. Rider, more fully described within that deed of record in Deed
             Book 152, Page 731 of the county court clerk’s records at Williamstown,
             Kentucky from A-1 to CBD.
             Changing the zoning and classification of four certain lots in what is known as
444-  6-5-   the King Addition, a subdivision of town lots in and joining the city and known
1989  1989   and designated on the map or plat of the subdivision as Lots 2, 3, 4 and 5 as
             is recorded on the plat in Plat Book 1, Page 62 in the County Clerk’s Office,
             Williamstown, Kentucky from R-1 to CBD.
             Changing the zoning classification and land use of an 8.989-acre parcel of land
488-  9-11-  on the west side of Frontage Road 5 and south of State Highway 22 owned by E.J.
1989  1989   Blackburn and under contract of purchase to Grant County Farm Supply from A-
             1 to NC.
451-  12-4-  Changing the zoning classification of a 3.29-acre parcel of land within the
1989  1989   city situated between Maple Street and Michigan Avenue and the lands of Conrad
             owned by Howard Brewer, Jr., et ux, from A-1 to R-4.
             Changing the zoning classification of three parcels of land within the city
452-  1-8-   fronting on the northerly side of Broadway and on the westerly side of Short
1989  1990   Race Street owned by, respectively, Walter Carl Dills and Walter Carl Dills,
             Sr. from R-1 to CBD.
468-  7-1-   Rezoning a certain five acre parcel beginning at a post with said post being 30
1991  1991   feet from the center of State Highway No. 467 and being a common corner with
             Robert Schoenman.
475-  12-2-  Rezoning the following two parcels of land from R-1 to CBD:
1991  1991
              Lot 1. Beginning at a point, a fence post at the Northwest corner of lot, a
             new made corner in the line of A.C. Sldrvin and Jon McCoy.
              Lot 2. Beginning at a point in the right-of-way of the Taft Highway and
             corner to Eddie L. and Juanita Morgan and Herbert C. and Pauline Rohrs.
489-  10-16- Rezoning certain property beginning at an iron pin in the west right-of-way of
1992  1992   Judith Street and a corner to David Beach and the point also being the
             southeast corner of Lot 69 of the Taylor Addition from R-1 to CBD.
490-  10-16- Rezoning certain property beginning at a point in the center of the middle of
1992  1992   Broadway and a corner to Lot 8, N. 3 W 17.8 feet to the north side of Broadway
             from R-1 to CBD.
492-  11-9-  Rezoning certain property beginning at a shared point with the Robert A. West
1992  1992   property in the south side of the right-of-way of State Route 22 from A-1 to
             NC.
500-  6-7-   Changing the zoning classification of a 1.9575-acre parcel of land situated on
1993  1993   the north side of Broadway and the south side of Warsaw Avenue from R-1 to CBD.
             Changing the zoning classification of a 10.48-acre parcel of land situated on
502-  9-20-  the easterly side of U.S. 25 and the easterly side of the right-of-way of the
1993  1993   Southern Railway and to the southerly side of Business Boulevard from I-1 to
             CBD.
506-  12-6-  Changing the zoning classification of a three-acre parcel of land situated on
1993  1993   easterly side of U.S. 25 and right-of-way of Southern Railway and to northerly
             side of Business Boulevard from I-1 to CBD.
510-  5-2-   Changing the zoning classification of a 13.993-acre parcel of land situated on
1994  1994   easterly side of U.S. Highway 25 from A-1 to NC.
             Changing the zoning classification of a 21.7915-acre parcel of land situated on
511-  5-2-   southerly side of Route 22 and westerly side of Ruthman Drive and 40-acre
1994  1994   parcel of land situated on westerly side of Ruthman Drive and adjacent to
             southerly side of foregoing parcel from A-1 to I-1.
515-  7-18-  Changing the zoning classification of a 0.62-acre parcel of land situated on
1994  1994   southerly side of Warsaw Avenue from NC to R-4 and a 0.609-acre parcel of land
             situated on southerly side of Warsaw Avenue from NC to R-4.
516-  7-18-  Changing the zoning classification of three adjacent parcels of land situated
1994  1994   on westerly side of U.S. Highway 25 from R-2 to NC.
518-  8-1-   Changing the zoning classification of 0.413-acre parcel of land situated at 26
1994  1994   Broadway from R-1 to CBD.
526-  3-6-   Changing the zoning classification of 0.4603-acre of land situated at 32
1995  1995   Broadway from R-1 to CBD.
531-  8-7-   Changing the zoning classification of 7.963 acres of land situated on north
1995  1995   side of Taft Highway from A-1 to I-1.
536-  12-4-  Changing the zoning classification of 4.507 acres of land situated on westerly
1995  1995   side of Meets Road from A-1 to NC.
548-  11-4-  Changing the zoning classification of two numbered plats within Stith
1996  1996   Subdivision of Wilorn Drive from R-1 to NC.
555-  4-7-   Amending § 9.8 of the Official Zoning Code.
1997  1997
560-  6-13-  Changing the zoning classification of 67.54 acres of land situated on the
1997  1997   westerly side of U.S. Highway 25 (South Main Street) and adjacent to the
             northerly side of Kings Drive from A-1 to R-3.
564-  8-8-   Changing the zoning classification of 113 acres of land situated on the
1997  1997   easterly side of and at 129 South Main Street (U.S. Highway 25) from NC, A-1,
             R-1, and R-3 to NC, R-3 and R-4.
572-  2-2-   Changing the zoning classification of two parcels of land containing
1998  1998   approximately 0.8432 acres situated on the westerly side of South Main Street
             (U.S. Highway 25) from R-2 to CBD.
576-  6-24-  Changing the zoning classification of approximately 0.1339 acres of land
1998  1998   situated on the southerly side of Broadway at its intersection with Judith
             Street from R-1 to CBD.
592-  7-12-  Changing the zoning classification of approximately 0.2534 acres of land
1999  1999   situated on the northerly side of Broadway at the street address of No. 46 from
             R-1 to CBD.
594-  8-23-  Changing the zoning classification of a city lot being 50 feet by 125 feet
1999  1999   situated on the Southerly side of Broadway, ground address No. 27 Broadway,
             from R-1 to CBD.
601-  1-3-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land situated on the
2000  2000   northerly side of Broadway at Street No. 48 from R-1 to CBD.
626-  5-6-   Changing the zoning classification of the following three parcels of land:
2002  2002
              Containing approximately 12.429 acres of land situated on the easterly side
             of north Main Street, ground address 225 Assembly Church Road, from A-1 to I-1.
                Containing approximately 40.5002 acres of land situated on the easterly side
             of McCoy Road, the northerly side of Warsaw Avenue, the westerly side of Oak
           Street, to the northerly and westerly course of Michigan Avenue and Scott
             Street, on the westerly side of U.S. Highway 25, ground address of 5075 Dixie
             Highway, from A-1 to R-1.
                Containing approximately 79.3501 acres situated on the easterly side of
             south Main Street, the southerly side of Knoxville Road, on the westerly side
           by another boundary of Wright, and the south and southerly side by another
             boundary of Wright property and of Rider property, ground address of 555
             Knoxville Road, from A-1 to R-1.
627-  6-3-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land being approximately 12
2002  2002   acres situated on the easterly side of south Main Street and its intersections
             with Business Boulevard from CBD to A-1.
632-  11-4-  Changing the zoning classification of a city lot being approximately one acre
2002  2002   situated on the northerly side of Broadway at its intersection with the
             easterly side of Short Race Street from R-3 to CBD.
643-  8-4-   Changing the zoning classification of a city lot being 0.30 acres, ground
2003  2003   address No. 42 Broadway, from R-1 to CBD.
652-  12-1-  Changing the zoning classification of a boundary of land being 17.5760 acres
2003  2003   from A-1 to R-2.
654-  2-2-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel and boundary of land being
2004  2004   approximately 6 acres from A-1 to NC.
660-  9-2-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land being 0.3685 acres from
2004  2004   R-1 to CBD.
682-  11-14- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 38 North Main
2005  2005   Street from R-3 to CBD.
683-  11-14- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 42 North Main
2005  2005   Street from R-3 to CBD.
684-  11-14- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 47 North Main
2005  2005   Street from R-3 to CBD.
685-  11-14- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 49 North Main
2005  2005   Street from R-3 to CBD.
686-  11-14- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 35 Broadway
2005  2005   from R-1 to CBD.
687-  12-5-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 310 Meeks
2005  2005   Road from A-1 to NC.
             Changing the zoning classification of boundaries of land situated at the
             present terminus of Brentwood Drive for the lands of CAC Properties, LLC having
695-  7-17-  an area of Circa 24 acres from R-3 to R-3, HC and property situated at the
2006  2006   termini of Kings Heights and Stewart Lane, Circa 62 acres from A-1 to R-3 and
             for an area of Circa 16 acres adjacent to Kings Heights and the present
             Brentwood Subdivision to HC.
698-  9-11-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on the westerly
2006  2006   side of the McCoy Road for the Lands of Arrm Properties, LLC from A-1 to HC.
700-  10-16- Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on the southerly
2006  2006   side of the Taft Highway from R-2 to R-3.
714-  6-18-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located at 43 Warsaw
2007  2007   Avenue from R-4 to CBD.
726-  6-16-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on the southwest
2008  2008   corner of State Route 22 and Meeks Road, containing 9.385 acres, more or less,
             owned by Westside Development Co., Inc. from A-1 to NC and HC.
727-  6-16-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on the southerly
2008  2008   side of Taft Highway (State Route 22), containing 0.14 acres, more or less,
             owned by Larry Sears from R-2 to R-4.
751-  4-5-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on the westerly
2010  2010   side of Wilorn Drive and being Lot 35 of Stith Subdivision, Section 2 from NC
             to R-1(C) and presently owned by Phil R. and Christina Schmidt.
             Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land situated to the east of
             the easterly right-of-way of I-75 and along the southerly side of State Route
764-  5-7-   22 (Taft Highway-Broadway), near its intersection with Ferguson Boulevard, and
2012  2012   behind and to the southerly side of the present Walmart complex, containing
             approximately 10.8142 acres, and owned by the Walter/Mccahrid interest, from NC
             to HC.
771-  3-18-  Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land situated on the westerly
2013  2013   side of Meeks Road at Postal Number 265, containing approximately 1.14 acres,
             and owned by Kerry and Kimberly Curry, from NC to R-1A.
825-  12-19- Changing the zoning classification of a boundary of land, located on the west
2016  2016   side of Blackburn Lane, 150 feet west of State Highway 22, containing
             approximately 2.498 acres, from NC to HC.
834-  10-2-  Changing the zoning classification of a boundary of land containing
2017  2017   approximately 24.1819 acres from HC under zoning ordinance official No. 380-
             1982 to HC under zoning ordinance official No. 692-2006
850-  8-20-  Changing the zoning classification of a boundary of land situated at 31 N. Main
2018  2018   Street, containing approximately 0.63 acre, from ND to R1-B.
868-  6-17-  Changing the zoning classification for an area of approximately 0.67 acre
2019  2019   located at 0 Taft highway from R-4 to R-3.
869-  6-17-  Changing the zoning classification for an area of approximately 0.4424 acre
2019  2019   located at 12 Cross Street from CBD to R-2.
874-  6-15-  Changing the zoning classification for an area of approximately 0.751 acre
2020  2020   located at 102 S. Main Street from A-1 to R-2.
879-  2-22-  Changing the zoning classification for 905 Warsaw Ave from A-1 to R-1A.
2021  2021
886-  12-6-  Changing the zoning classification for 1125 Dry Ridge Road from I-1 to I-2.
2021  2021
888-  2-28-  Changing the zoning classification for 1995 Taft Highway from A-1 to I-2.
2022  2022
894-  1-16-  Changing the zoning classification for 225 Assembly Church Road from I-1 to A-
2022  2023   1.
899-  7-17-  Changing the zoning classification for 28 Taft Highway from MHP and NC to NC.
2023  2023
909-  11-19- Changing the zoning classification for 270 Meeks Road from AG to R-1.
2024  2024
910-  11-19- Changing the zoning classification for approximately 13 acres of land located
2024  2024   on Warsaw Road from MHP to R-2M.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
References to Municipal Orders
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
6.050                   32.48
6.955 through 6.975     33.04
Chapter 13A             93.02;
                        118.063
                        93.05;
Chapter 13B             118.041;
                        118.063
Chapter 18A             113.03
18A.225(2)              113.03
18A.228                 113.03
42.450 through 42.495   33.04
Chapter 45A             34.22
Chapter 56              34.22
Chapter 61              32.16
61.805 through 61.850   35.20
61.805(1)               35.01
61.805(2)               35.01
61.805(3)               35.01
61.805(4)               35.01
61.805(5)               35.01
61.810                  35.15;
                        39.075
61.815                  35.16
61.820                  35.17;
                        35.19
61.823                  35.18;
                        35.19
61.826                  35.19
61.840                  35.19
61.846                  35.20
61.848                  35.20
61.870                  34.01
61.870 through 61.882   31.36
61.870 through 61.884   39.078
                        34.15;
                        34.22;
61.870(1)               39.021;
                        39.072; 32.078;
                        117.09
61.870(1)(h)            34.01
61.872 through 61.884   39.021
61.872(1)               34.15
61.872(2)               34.15
61.872(3)               34.15
61.872(4)               34.16;
                        34.17
61.872(5)               34.18
61.874(1)               34.15
61.874(2)(b)            34.15
61.874(4)               34.15
61.874(5)               34.15
61.874(6)               34.15
61.878                  34.01;
                        34.22
61.878(1)(i)            35.15
61.880                  34.19
61.880(1)               34.22
61.882                  34.19
61.884                  34.21
62.020                  31.01
Chapter 65              31.02;
                        39.001
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.8840                 92.05
                        110.02;
67.750 through 67.790   110.99;
                        117.99
67.750 through 67.795   117.01
67.753                  110.02
82.625                  72.25
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.030(2)              30.02
83A.040(1)              31.21
83A.040(2)              31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              31.21;
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21;
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21;
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.04
83A.043                 31.20
83A.045                 31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060                 32.17
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4)              32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(7)              32.38
83A.060(8)              32.41;
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(13)             32.46
83A.060(12)             32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.99
83A.070                 31.03
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080                 39.002
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04;
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085(3)              31.36
83A.130 through 83A.150 31.21
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(5)              32.15
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.170                 31.20
83A.175                 31.20;
                        32.02
Chapter 91              36.08
91.484 through 91.527   36.08
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080(3)              113.05
91A.200                 33.21
91A.210                 33.20
91A.220                 33.21
91A.230                 33.22
91A.240                 33.23
91A.250                 33.24
91A.260                 33.25
91A.270                 33.26
91A.280                 33.27
91A.290                 33.28
92.280                  120.01
92.281                  120.01
92.810                  36.08
Chapter 100             151.15
Chapter 118             31.20
131.010(6)              113.04
132.285                 36.01
134.420 et seq.         36.08
134.420(1)              36.08
137.115(1)(e)           114.03
Chapter 154             34.22
174.100                 91.20
174.100(1)              91.21
174.100(2)              91.22
174.100(3)              91.22
174.100(4)              91.23
174.100(5)              91.24
174.100(6)              91.25
Chapter 189             70.07
189.010(4)              130.02
189.010(19)             70.01
189.020                 71.037
189.290                 71.035
189.330(8)              71.002
189.338                 70.20
189.378                 71.050;
                        71.999
189.378(1)              70.01
189.394                 71.999
189.450(5)(f)           72.03
189.700                 71.065
189.910                 71.050
189.920                 71.050
189.930                 71.036
189.990(1)              72.99
189.990(2)(a)           71.999
189.993(8)              71.999
Chapter 198B            150.03
198B.070                150.03
198B.990(1)             150.99
219.021                 119.01
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
227.700                 93.01
227.700 through 227.750 93.01;
                        93.05
227.702                 93.01;
                        93.02
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.01;
                        93.02
227.720                 93.03
227.730                 93.04
227.750                 93.05
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              93.99
                        118.002;
                        118.003;
241 through 244         118.005;
                        118.040;
                        118.062;
                        118.096
241.100                 118.040
241.160                 118.040
241.170                 118.040
241.200                 118.065
242.185(5)              118.026
Chapter 243             118.097
243.030                 118.021
243.070                 118.020;
                        118.026
243.075                 118.026
243.450                 118.065
243.480                 118.999
243.490                 118.065
243.500                 118.065
243.550                 118.063
243.850                 118.066
243.895                 118.095
244.050                 118.097
244.085                 118.096
244.130                 118.114
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
258.135                 90.24
318.990                 150.99
386.3-135               116.01
                        32.43;
                        33.04;
Chapter 424             33.24;
                        33.25;
                        118.055
424.170                 118.055
424.220                 33.04
424.240                 33.03
424.330(2)              36.08
436.600                 90.04;
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
511.080                 118.097
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03;
                        90.99
532.090(1)              91.99
532.090(2)              130.99
534.040(2)(a)           91.99
534.040(2)(b)           130.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.04              31.04
31.20              31.20
31.21              31.21
31.22              31.22
31.35              31.35
31.36              31.36
31.37              31.37
31.50              31.38
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.35              32.35
32.36              32.36
32.37              32.37
32.38              32.38
32.39              32.39
32.40              32.40
32.41              32.41
32.42              32.42
32.43              32.43
32.44              32.44
32.45              32.45
32.46              32.46
32.47              32.47
32.48              32.48
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04;
                   33.99
33.05              33.05
33.10              33.20
33.11              33.21
33.12              33.22
33.13              33.23
33.14              33.24
33.15              33.25
33.16              33.26
33.17              33.27
33.18              33.28
34.01              34.01
34.05              34.15
34.06              34.16
34.07              34.17
34.08              34.18
34.09              34.19
34.10              34.20
34A.01             35.01
34A.05             35.15
34A.06             35.16
34A.07             35.17
34A.08             35.18
34A.09             35.19
34A.10             35.20
34.11              34.21
34.12              34.22
35.01              36.01
35.02              36.02
35.03              36.03
35.04              36.04
35.05              36.05
35.06              36.06
35.07              36.07
35.08              36.08
36.01              37.01
36.02              37.02
36.20              37.15
36.21              37.16
36.30              37.30
37.01              38.01
38.01              39.001
38.02              39.002
38.10              39.015
38.11              39.016
38.12              39.017
38.13              39.018
38.14              39.019
38.15              39.020
38.16              39.021
38.20              39.035
38.21              39.036
38.22              39.037
38.23              39.038
38.24              39.039
38.25              39.040
38.30              39.055
38.40              39.070
38.41              39.071
38.42              39.072
38.43              39.073
38.44              39.074
38.45              39.075
38.46              39.076
38.47              39.077
38.48              39.078
38.99              39.999
39.01              38.15
39.02              38.16
39.03              38.17
39.04              38.18
50.35              50.01
50.36              50.02
51.001             51.001
51.002             51.002
51.003             51.003
51.004             51.004
51.015             51.015
51.016             51.016
51.017             51.017
51.018             51.018
51.019             51.019
51.020             51.020
51.021             51.021
51.022             51.022
51.035             51.035
51.036             51.036
51.045             51.050
51.046             51.051
51.047             51.052
51.048             51.053
51.049             51.054
51.060             51.065
51.061             51.066
51.062             51.067
51.063             51.068
51.064             51.069
51.065             51.070
51.066             51.071
51.067             51.072
51.080             51.085
51.081             51.086
51.082             51.087
51.083             51.088
51.084             51.089
51.085             51.090
51.086             51.091
51.087             51.092
51.088             51.093
51.089             51.094
51.090             51.095
51.100             51.110
51.101             51.111
51.110             51.125
51.111             51.126
51.120             51.140
51.130             51.155
51.131             51.156
51.132             51.157
51.133             51.158
51.145             51.170
51.146             51.171
51.147             51.172
51.148             51.173
51.149             51.174
51.150             51.175
51.160             51.190
51.161             51.191
51.162             51.192
51.163             51.193
51.164             51.194
51.165             51.195
51.166             51.196
51.167             51.197
51.999             51.999
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.10              52.15
52.11              52.16
52.12              52.17
52.13              52.18
52.14              52.19
52.15              52.20
52.16              52.21
52.17              52.22
52.99              52.99
53.01              53.01
53.02              53.02
53.03              53.03
53.06              53.04
53.09              53.05
53.13              53.06
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.06              70.06
70.15              70.20
70.16              70.21
70.17              70.22
70.18              70.23
70.19              70.24
70.20              70.25
70.21              70.26
70.99              70.99
71.01              71.001
71.02              71.002
71.03              71.003
71.04              71.004
71.05              71.005
71.06              71.006
71.15              71.020
71.16              71.021
71.25              71.035
71.26              71.036
71.27              71.037
71.28              71.038
71.29              71.039
71.30              71.050
71.40              71.065
71.41              71.066
71.42              71.067
71.43              71.068
71.44              71.069
71.45              71.070
71.46              71.071
71.47              71.072
71.48              71.073
71.49              71.074
71.50              71.075
71.51              71.076
71.99              71.999
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06
72.07              72.07
72.08              72.08
72.09              72.09
72.10              72.10
72.11              72.11
72.12              72.12
72.13              72.13
72.14              72.14
72.20              72.25
72.35              72.40
72.36              72.41
72.37              72.42
72.50              72.55
72.51              72.56
72.52              72.57
72.53              72.58
72.99              72.99
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.99              73.99
Ch. 74, Sched. I   Ch. 74, Sched. I
Ch. 75, Sched. I   Ch. 75, Sched. I
Ch. 75, Sched. II  Ch. 75, Sched. II
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.15              90.20
90.16              90.21
90.17              90.22
90.18              90.23
90.19              90.24
90.20              90.25
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.05              91.05
91.06              91.06
91.15              91.20
91.16              91.21
91.17              91.22
91.18              91.23
91.19              91.24
91.20              91.25
91.25              91.40
91.30              91.50
91.31              91.51
91.32              91.52
91.33              91.53
91.34              91.54
91.40              70.07
91.50              91.65
91.51              91.66
91.52              91.67
91.99              70.99;
                   91.99
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.06              92.06
92.99              92.99
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.20              93.20
93.21              93.21
93.99              93.99
95.01              94.01
95.02              94.02
95.03              94.03
95.04              94.04
95.05              94.05
95.06              94.06
95.07              94.07
95.08              94.08
95.20              94.20
95.21              94.21
95.22              94.22
95.23              94.23
95.24              94.24
95.99              94.99
96.01              95.01
96.02              95.02
96.03              95.03
96.99              95.99
97.01              152.01
97.02              152.02
97.03              152.03
97.04              152.04
97.05              152.05
97.06              152.06
97.07              152.07
97.08              152.08
97.09              152.09
97.10              152.10
97.11              152.11
97.12              152.12
97.13              152.13
97.14              152.14
97.15              152.15
97.16              152.16
97.17              152.17
97.99              152.99
98.01              96.01
98.02              96.02
98.03              96.03
98.10              96.15
98.11              96.16
98.25              96.30
98.26              96.31
98.27              96.32
98.28              96.33
98.29              96.34
98.30              96.35
98.31              96.36
98.32              96.37
98.33              96.38
98.99              96.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.10             110.10
110.11             110.11
110.12             110.12
110.13             110.13
110.14             110.14
110.15             110.15
110.16             110.16
110.17             110.17
110.18             110.18
110.19             110.19
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.99             111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.06             113.06
114.01             114.01
114.02             114.02
114.03             114.03
114.04             114.04
114.05             114.05
114.06             114.06
114.07             114.07
114.99             114.99
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.03             115.03
115.04             115.04
115.05             115.05
115.99             115.99
116.01             116.01
116.03             116.02
116.04             116.034
116.99             116.99
117.01             117.01
117.02             117.02
117.03             117.03
117.04             117.04
117.05             117.05
117.06             117.06
117.07             117.07
117.08             117.08
117.09             117.09
117.10             117.10
117.99             117.99
118.001            118.001
118.002            118.002
118.003            118.003
118.004            118.004
118.005            118.005
118.006            118.006
118.020            118.020
118.021            118.021
118.022            118.022
118.023            118.023
118.024            118.024
118.025            118.025
118.026            118.026
118.040            118.040
118.041            118.041
118.055            118.055
118.056            118.056
118.057            118.057
118.058            118.058
118.059            118.059
118.060            118.060
118.061            118.061
118.062            118.062
118.063            118.063
118.064            118.064
118.065            118.065
118.066            118.066
118.067            118.067
118.080            118.080
118.081            118.081
118.082            118.082
118.095            118.095
118.110            118.096
118.125            118.097
118.140            118.098
118.155            118.110
118.156            118.111
118.157            118.112
118.158            118.113
118.159            118.114
118.160            118.115
118.161            118.116
118.175            118.130
118.176            118.131
118.177            118.132
118.178            118.133
118.998            118.998
118.999            118.999
130.01             130.01;
                   130.99
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.15             150.15
150.16             150.16
150.17             150.17
150.18             150.18
150.19             150.19
150.20             150.20
150.21             150.21
150.22             150.22
150.35             150.35
150.36             150.36
150.37             150.37
150.38             150.38
150.39             150.39
150.40             150.40
150.41             150.41
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
151.12             151.15
151.13             151.16
153.01             153.01
153.02             153.02
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
216      11-5-1963   TSO Table III
2023-05  2-21-2023   TSO Table III
2024-01  2-26-2024   96.50
2024-05  7-15-2024   Ch. 74, Sched. II
2025-01  2-18-2025   TSO Table III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
110       - -         TSO Table V
                      73.01;
124       - -         73.03;
                      Ch. 75, Sched. II
78        9-2-1935    TSO Table I
79        10-1-1935   TSO Table I
80        12-3-1935   TSO Table I
95        10-1-1940   TSO Table I
97        12-3-1940   TSO Table II
107       10-1-1946   TSO Table I
118       7-6-1948    Ch. 75, Sched. I
133       - -1951     71.006
122       2-6-1951    150.35—
                      150.41
141       1-22-1952   TSO Table VI
147       5-6-1952    TSO Table I
148       6-3-1952    TSO Table II
150       9-2-1952    TSO Table II
161       4-5-1955    TSO Table III
164       11-1-1955   91.40
165       4-3-1956    Ch. 75, Sched. II
168       5-15-1956   TSO Table I
175       2-5-1957    Ch. 75, Sched. II
182       9-2-1958    TSO Table I
187       1-5-1960    TSO Table I
193       7-5-1960    Ch. 75, Sched. I
200       6-6-1961    TSO Table I
202       8-1-1961    TSO Table I
204       12-5-1961   Ch. 75, Sched. I
205       12-5-1961   TSO Table III
206       3-6-1962    TSO Table II
230       9-7-1965    TSO Table I
231       11-2-1965   TSO Table I
233       12-7-1965   151.15
234       12-24-1965  TSO Table I
237       3-2-1966    TSO Table II
238       5-3-1966    71.038;
                      71.039
245       5-5-1967    TSO Table I
247       6-6-1967    TSO Table VI
262       1-4-1971    TSO Table II
248       4-6-1971    TSO Table II
270       10-3-1972   TSO Table I
273       1- -1974    50.02
286       5-5-1975    33.03
297       10-4-1976   31.36
331-1979  7-10-1979   37.01;
                      37.02
335-1979  8-6-1979    TSO Table II
337-1979  9-10-1979   TSO Table I
339-1979  11-5-1979   TSO Table I
                      150.15—
343       12-10-1979  150.22;
                      150.99
345       1-7-1980    TSO Table I
346       1-7-1980    TSO Table I
348-1980  8-4-1980    52.01
358-1980  1-5-1981    37.01;
                      37.02
359-1980  1-5-1981    TSO Table IV
377-1982  8-2-1982    151.15
378       10-4-1982   Ch. 91, Appendix
380       11-1-1982   153.01
382       11-15-1982  Ch. 75, Sched. I
384       2-15-1983   153.01
                      90.21;
386-1983  4-4-1983    90.23—
                      90.25;
                      90.99
388       8-8-1983    153.01
391-1984  1-10-1984   153.01
                      113.01—
397-1984  10-27-1984  113.04;
                      113.06
402-1985  11-4-1985   TSO Table IV
                      95.01—
403-1986  4-14-1986   95.03;
                      95.99
                      51.001;
                      51.002;
                      51.015—
                      51.022;
                      51.035;
                      51.036;
408-1986  9-25-1986   51.050—
                      51.053;
                      51.065—
                      51.072;
                      51.085—
                      51.095;
                      51.155—
                      51.158
                      51.003;
                      51.110;
                      51.111;
                      51.125;
409-1986  9-25-1986   51.126;
                      51.140;
                      51.170—
                      51.175;
                      51.999
423-1987  - -1987     151.16
411-1987  1-19-1987   31.20
415-1987  5-4-1987    38.01
                      94.01—
418-1987  7-6-1987    94.08;
                      94.20—
                      94.24
419-1987  7-6-1987    94.08;
                      94.99
422-1987  10-5-1987   TSO Table III
426-1988  3-7-1988    TSO Table V
430-1988  6-6-1988    Ch. 75, Sched. I
432-1988  6-6-1988    TSO Table III
433-1988  8-1-1988    TSO Table VII
434-1988  8-1-1988    TSO Table VII
88-435    10-3-1988   31.20
437-1988  12-5-1988   TSO Table III
438-1989  2-6-1989    Ch. 75, Sched. I
440-1989  3-6-1989    153.01
441-1989  3-6-1989    52.02
443-1989  5-1-1989    153.01
444-1989  6-5-1989    TSO Table VII
445-1989  6-5-1989    TSO Table IV
488-1989  9-11-1989   TSO Table VII
450-1989  10-3-1989   TSO Table III
451-1989  12-4-1989   TSO Table VII
452-1989  1-8-1990    TSO Table VII
453-1990  4-16-1990   52.02
460-1990  8-27-1990   TSO Table I
462-1990  1-7-1991    TSO Table III
466-1991  6-3-1991    151.01
467-1991  6-3-1991    153.01
468-1991  7-1-1991    TSO Table VII
469-1991  7-1-1991    50.01
475-1991  12-2-1991   TSO Table VII
478-1992  2-3-1992    TSO Table I
479-1992  3-2-1992    52.02
480-1992  3-2-1992    52.01
482-1992  4-6-1992    70.06;
                      71.005
483-1992  5-4-1992    153.01
486-1992  9-14-1992   96.01—
                      96.03
                      152.01—
488-1992  10-5-1992   152.17;
                      152.99
489-1992  10-16-1992  TSO Table VII
490-1992  10-16-1992  TSO Table VII
492-1992  11-9-1992   TSO Table VII
493-1992  12-7-1992   113.01—
                      113.05
494-1992  12-7-1992   38.01
496-1993  4-5-1993    52.02
500-1993  6-7-1993    TSO Table VII
502-1993  9-20-1993   TSO Table VII
503-1993  9-20-1993   36.06
504-1993  10-4-1993   36.01
505-1993  11-1-1993   TSO Table III
506-1993  12-6-1993   TSO Table VII
507-1994  1-3-1994    TSO Table III
                      52.15—
509-1994  4-4-1994    52.22;
                      52.99
510-1994  5-2-1994    TSO Table VII
511-1994  5-2-1994    TSO Table VII
512-1994  5-6-1994    TSO Table I
515-1994  7-18-1994   TSO Table VII
516-1994  7-18-1994   TSO Table VII
517-1994  7-18-1994   TSO Table I
518-1994  8-1-1994    TSO Table VII
519-1994  9-12-1994   36.06
                      114.01—
520-1994  10-3-1994   114.07;
                      114.99
521-1994  10-3-1994   TSO Table I
522-1994  10-3-1994   36.01
                      39.001;
                      39.002;
                      39.015—
                      39.021;
523-1994  11-23-1994  39.035—
                      39.040;
                      39.055;
                      39.070—
                      39.078;
                      39.999
                      115.01—
524-1994  12-5-1994   115.05;
                      115.99
521-1994  1-1-1995    TSO Table I
525-1994  1-5-1995    153.01
526-1995  3-6-1995    TSO Table VII
                      72.40—
527-1995  3-23-1995   72.42;
                      72.99
530-1995  6-22-1995   TSO Table III
531-1995  8-7-1995    TSO Table VII
532-1995  10-2-1995   36.06
533-1995  10-2-1995   36.01
534-1995  10-2-1995   TSO Table I
536-1995  12-4-1995   TSO Table VII
539-1996  5-6-1996    TSO Table I
541-1996  6-10-1996   153.01
543-1996  8-5-1996    153.01
544-1996  9-9-1996    36.06
                      116.01—
545-1996  10-14-1996  116.03;
                      116.99
546-1996  10-14-1996  36.01
547-1996  10-14-1996  Ch. 75, Sched. I
548-1996  11-4-1996   TSO Table VII
550-1996  11-14-1996  TSO Table I
551-1997  1-6-1997    Ch. 75, Sched. I
555-1997  4-7-1997    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
556-1997  4-7-1997    150.01
558-1997  6-2-1997    TSO Table I
560-1997  6-13-1997   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
561-1997  6-13-1997   TSO Table I
563-1997  7-14-1997   31.21
564-1997  8-8-1997    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
                      36.01;
566-1997  10-6-1997   36.04;
                      36.05
567-1997  10-6-1997   36.06
568-1997  12-1-1997   TSO Table III
                      51.002;
570-1998  1-5-1998    51.086;
                      51.999
572-1998  2-2-1998    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
573-1998  2-2-1998    51.140
574-1998  3-9-1998    32.43;
                      153.02
576-1998  6-24-1998   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
577-1998  8-3-1998    153.01
578-1998  8-3-1998    153.01
579-1998  9-14-1998   153.01
580-1998  9-14-1998   36.06
581-1998  10-5-1998   36.01;
                      36.04
582-1998  12-7-1998   38.01
584-1999  3-1-1999    32.01
585-1999  4-19-1999   52.16
590-1999  6-7-1999    153.01
591-1999  6-7-1999    153.01
592-1999  7-12-1999   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
593-1999  7-17-1999   TSO Table III
594-1999  8-23-1999   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
595-1999  9-13-1999   36.06
596-1999  9-17-1999   38.01
                      36.01;
597-1999  10-4-1999   36.04;
                      36.05
598-1999  10-4-1999   50.01;
                      TSO Table III
599-1999  11-1-1999   TSO Table VI
600-1999  12-6-1999   51.140
601-2000  1-3-2000    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
605-2000  4-10-2000   TSO Table VI
608-2000  5-25-2000   TSO Table III
609-2000  9-11-2000   36.06
                      36.01;
610-2000  10-9-2000   36.04;
                      36.05
612-2000  12-4-2000   38.01
615-2001  5-7-2001    153.01
616-2001  6-4-2001    TSO Table IV
                      36.01;
619-2001  10-1-2001   36.04;
                      36.05
620-2001  10-1-2001   TSO Table IV
618-2001  10-10-2001  36.06
621-2001  11-5-2001   38.01
622-2001  12-3-2001   TSO Table I
623-2001  12-3-2001   38.15—
                      38.18
624-2002  1-7-2002    TSO Table I
625-2002  3-4-2002    51.086
626-2002  5-6-2002    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
627-2002  6-3-2002    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
629-2002  9-3-2002    36.06
                      36.01;
630-2002  10-1-2002   36.04;
                      36.05
631-2002  10-1-2002   38.01
632-2002  11-4-2002   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
633-2003  2-3-2003    38.01
634-2003  3-3-2003    51.004;
                      52.03
635-2003  3-3-2003    50.01
636-2003  4-7-2003    51.067
637-2003  4-7-2003    153.01
642-2003  8-4-2003    TSO Table I
643-2003  8-4-2003    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
644-2003  8-4-2003    50.01;
                      TSO Table III
650-2003  10-6-2003   38.01
651-2003  10-6-2003   TSO Table II
652-2003  12-1-2003   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
653-2003  12-1-2003   TSO Table III
654-2004  2-2-2004    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
657-2004  7-1-2004    38.01
658-2004  7-8-2004    37.16
659-2004  7-8-2004    38.01
660-2004  9-2-2004    153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
661-2004  9-2-2004    36.06
662-2004  9-2-2004    151.01
665-2005  4-11-2005   153.01
666-2005  4-11-2005   51.140
667-2005  4-11-2005   52.16
668-2005  5-2-2005    50.01;
                      TSO Table III
670-2005  5-9-2005    153.01
675-2005  8-12-2005   36.06
                      36.01;
676-2005  9-19-2005   36.04;
                      36.05
677-2005  9-19-2005   TSO Table III
678-2005  10-3-2005   TSO Table I
681-2005  11-7-2005   TSO Table I
682-2005  11-14-2005  153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
683-2005  11-14-2005  153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
684-2005  11-14-2005  153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
685-2005  11-14-2005  153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
686-2005  11-14-2005  153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
680-2005  11-24-2005  38.01
687-2005  12-5-2005   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
688-2005  12-15-2005  38.01
690-2006  4-17-2006   38.01
691-1006  4-17-2006   38.01
692-2006  4-17-2006   153.01
695-2006  7-17-2006   TSO Table VII
696-2006  8-21-2006   36.06
698-2006  9-11-2006   TSO Table VII
699-2006  9-18-2006   36.01
700-2006  10-16-2006  TSO Table VII
702-2006  10-16-2006  TSO Table I
704-2007  1-8-2007    95.01
705-2007  1-8-2007    70.07;
                      70.99
708-2007  3-16-2007   TSO Table III
709-2007  3-19-2007   96.16
714-2007  6-18-2007   153.01;
                      TSO Table VII
715-2007  7-2-2007    38.01
716-2007  8-23-2007   51.190—
                      51.197
717-2007  9-17-2007   36.06
718-2007  10-22-2007  36.01—
                      36.05
720-2007  10-22-2007  38.01
719-2007  10-31-2007  38.01
722-2008  1-21-2008   TSO Table III
725-2008  3-24-2008   37.30
726-2008  6-16-2008   TSO Table VII
727-2008  6-16-2008   TSO Table VII
731-2008  7-21-2008   153.01
732-2008  9-15-2008   36.08
733-2008  9-22-2008   36.06
734-2008  9-22-2008   36.01—
                      36.05
735-2008  10-20-2008  51.054
736-2008  10-20-2008  153.01
737-2008  12-1-2008   96.16
                      92.01—
742-2009  5-18-2009   92.06;
                      92.99
746-2009  6-1-2009    153.01
747-2009  9-14-2009   36.06
748-2009  9-14-2009   36.01—
                      36.05
751-2010  4-5-2010    TSO Table VII
754-2010  7-19-2010   153.01
755-2010  9-20-2010   36.06
756-2010  9-20-2010   36.01—
                      36.05
757-2011  1-3-2011    51.111
761-2011  9-12-2011   36.01—
                      36.05
762-2011  9-12-2011   36.06
763-2011  10-3-2011   50.01;
                      TSO Table III
764-2012  5-7-2012    TSO Table VII
767-2012  6-18-2012   153.01
768-2012  6-18-2012   153.01
769-2012  9-10-2012   36.01—
                      36.05
770-2012  9-10-2012   36.06
771-2013  3-18-2013   TSO Table VII
779-2013  8-19-2013   36.06
780-2013  9-16-2013   36.01—
                      36.05
787-2014  7-7-2014    96.15
788-2014  9-8-2014    36.06
789-2014  9-18-2014   36.02—
                      36.05
790-2014  11-17-2014  TSO Table I
799-2015  9-8-2015    36.06
800-2015  9-8-2015    36.01—
                      36.05
801-2015  9-11-2015   130.01;
                      130.99
802-2015  9-11-2015   TSO Table III
803-2015  9-11-2015   TSO Table III
804-2016  2-1-2016    TSO Table IV
                      118.001—
                      118.006;
                      118.020—
                      118.026;
                      118.040;
                      118.041;
                      118.055—
                      118.067;
805-2016  3-1-2016    118.080—
                      118.082;
                      118.095—
                      118.098;
                      118.110—
                      118.116;
                      118.130—
                      118.133;
                      118.998;
                      118.999
806-2016  3-7-2016    153.01
807-2016  3-7-2016    153.01
808-2016  3-7-2016    153.01
819-2016  7-11-2016   TSO Table IV
809-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
810-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
811-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
812-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
813-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
814-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
815-2016  8-15-2016   153.01
820-2016  9-12-2016   36.02—
                      36.05
821-2016  9-12-2016   36.06
                      91.65—
822-2016  9-12-2016   91.67;
                      91.99
824-2016  11-7-2016   TSO Table III
825-2016  12-19-2016  TSO Table VII
                      117.01—
827-2017  3-6-2017    117.10;
                      117.99
                      110.01—
828-2017  3-20-2017   110.19;
                      110.99
829-2017  5-1-2017    TSO Table IV
831-2017  5-23-2017   52.01
835-2017  9-5-2017    110.05
837-2017  9-5-2017    36.06
8365-2017 9-5-2017    36.01—
                      36.05
                      96.30—
838-2017  9-18-2017   96.38;
                      96.99
834-2017  10-2-2017   TSO Table VII
839-2017  10-2-2017   50.01;
                      TSO Table III
840-2017  11-20-2017  118.080;
                      118.081
841-2017  12-18-2017  TSO Table III
847-2018  6-4-2018    92.05
848-2018  6-4-2018    53.01—
                      53.06
849-2018  8-20-2018   51.111
850-2018  8-20-2018   TSO Table VII
852-2018  9-4-2018    36.06
853-2018  9-4-2018    153.01
851-2018  9-6-2018    36.01—
                      36.05
                      72.01—
                      72.14;
854-2018  11-5-2018   72.25;
                      72.55—
                      72.58
856-2018  12-17-2018  TSO Table IV
857-2019  2-19-2019   32.15—
                      32.21
858-2019  3-18-2019   153.01
859-2019  3-18-2019   153.01
860-2019  3-18-2019   153.01
861-2019  3-25-2019   31.35;
                      31.39
862-2019  6-10-2019   153.01
867-2019  6-13-2019   118.026
868-2019  6-17-2019   TSO Table VII
869-2019  6-17-2019   TSO Table VII
871-2019  8-26-2019   36.06
872-2019  8-26-2019   36.01—
                      36.05
873-2020  3-16-2020   TSO Table VI
874-2020  6-15-2020   TSO Table VII
877-2020  9-21-2020   36.02
878-2020  9-21-2020   36.06
879-2021  2-22-2021   TSO Table VII
879-2021  6-21-2021   117.08
882-2021  9-28-2021   36.02
883-2021  9-28-2021   36.06
885-2021  11-15-2021  TSO Table I
884-2021  11-30-2021  130.02;
                      130.99
886-2021  12-6-2021   TSO Table VII
887-2021  12-6-2021   153.01
888-2022  2-28-2022   TSO Table VII
891-2022  9-19-2022   153.01
892-2022  9-22-2022   36.02
893-2022  9-22-2022   120.01;
                      120.02
894-2022  1-16-2023   TSO Table VII
895-2023  4-17-2023   96.16
897-2023  6-19-2023   50.01
899-2023  7-17-2023   TSO Table VII
901-2023  9-19-2023   36.02
902-2023  9-19-2023   52.01
903-2023  9-19-2023   51.111
904-2023  12-18-2023  153.01
                      119.01—
905-2023  12-18-2023  119.05;
                      119.99
900-2024  7-15-2024   110.20
906-2024  9-23-2024   36.01
907-2024  9-23-2024   36.06
908-2024  10-21-2024  153.01
909-2024  11-19-2024  TSO Table VII
910-2024  11-19-2024  TSO Table VII
                      95.01—
911-2024  12-16-2024  95.03;
                      95.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2020-01  12-21-2020  TSO Table IV
2021-03  6-24-2021   38.01
2023-01  6-19-2023   38.01
                    
 
