EARLINGTON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-06 passed 6-11-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2010-9
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OE EARLINGTON,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING. AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OE THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE..
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Earlington are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is sufficient to meet the immediate needs of the city; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form: and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Earlington has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Earlington that:
   Section I.   The general ordinances of the City of Earlington as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Earlington."
   Section 2.   The Code as adopted in Section I shall consist of the following
titles:
         Title I: General Provisions
         Title III: Administration
         Title V: Public Works
         Title VII: Traffic Code
         Title IX: General Regulations
         Title XI: Business Regulations
         Title XIII: General Offenses
         Title XV: Land Usage
         Table of Special Ordinances
         Table I. Annexations
         Table II. Bond Issues
         Table III. Contracts and Agreements
         Table IV. Conveyances
         Table V. Franchises
         Table VI. Street Vacations and Closures
         Table VII. Zoning Map Changes
         Parallel References:
         References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
         References to Resolutions
         References to Ordinances
         Index
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of
Earlington is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5.   The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and the date
of passage, and that the same is property signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   Passed this 10th day of August, 2010
   Passed on first reading: July 13, 2010
   Adopted on second reading: August 10, 2010
   Signed by Mayor, Michael W. Seiber
   Published in Paper: August 26, 2010
   Recorded by Clerk. Julia A. Sellers
/s/
Michael W. Seiber, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Julia A. Sellers, CMC, City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2012-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF EARLINGTON , KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2011 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Earlington, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of th is
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes: and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Earlington:
   Section 1.   That the 2011 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Earlington, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 26th day of March , 2012.
Passed on First Reading:   March 13, 2012
Adopted on Second Reading:   March 26, 2012
Signed by Mayor:   March 28, 2012
Published in the Paper:   March 30, 2012
Recorded by Clerk:   March 28, 2012
                         /s/
                        Michael W. Seiber, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Julia A. Sellers, CMC, City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2013-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF EARLINGTON, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Earlington, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Earlington:
   Section 1.   That the 2012 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Earlington, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this  12th day of  March , 2013.
Passed on First Reading:   February 12, 2013
Adopted on Second Reading:   March 12, 2013
Signed by Mayor:   March 13, 2013
Published in the Paper:   March 15, 2013
Recorded by Clerk:   March 15, 2013
    /s/
   Michael W. Seiber, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Julia A. Sellers, CMC, City Clerk/Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the City
of Earlington, Kentucky, Code of Ordinances, for which designation "codified
ordinances" or "code" may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boat information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s licenses
and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Earlington,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Hopkins County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council Member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Earlington, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030(2))
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, the reasonable time or notice shall mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include the acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of those subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the city to amend, add, or
repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   Section amended: "Section _____ of the City of Earlington,
Kentucky, Code of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . .";
      (2)   Section added: "Section _____, which reads as follows, is added to
and amends the City of Earlington, Kentucky, Code of Ordinances: . . ."; and
      (3)   Section repealed: "Section _____ of the City of Earlington,
Kentucky, Code of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . ."
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, have been
listed. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. l5, passed 1-2-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985; Ord. passed 1-1-1990; Ord. 40,
passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
   Statutory reference:
      Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   When an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances and no penalty is specifically provided, the offense shall be deemed
a violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each
offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY COUNCIL
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
         
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
36.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by any other officers and employees as are provided for by statute
or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six Councilmembers.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk-Treasurer
City Employees
   
31.50   Residency requirement
Code of Ethics
   
31.65   Definitions
   
31.66   Standards of conduct
   
31.67   Nepotism
   
31.68   Financial disclosure
   
31.69   Enforcement; Board of Ethics created
   
31.70   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
31.71   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
31.72   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
31.73   Effective date
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: "I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of __________, according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God," as
established by § 228 of the State Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes, by the second Friday in February of every year, the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the State Constitution, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the County Circuit Court and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council, unless otherwise provided by state
law or ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The form of election of the Mayor and the City Council shall be
henceforth nonpartisan and will forgo conducting a primary election as provided
for in KRS Ch. 83A.170 and Ch. 83A.045.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on 7-15-1980 shall
continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the Offices of Mayor and
City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 11-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Creation and abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3) and (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on January 1 following his or her election and
shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies. If a person
is selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than
four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered for
purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers, including the Chief of Police and all
city police officers, shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   All nonelected city officers shall reside in the city. An exception
may be made only if it is determined by the Mayor, with approval of the City
Council, that a qualified person cannot be found that is a resident of the
city.
   (E)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Fire Chief; and
      (3)   Assistant Fire Chief.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988; Ord. passed 12-27-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1) and (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.50 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   All city employees shall reside in the city. An exception may be made only
if it is determined by the Mayor, with approval of the City Council, that a
qualified person cannot be found that is a resident of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-27-1988)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration of
intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of State.
   CITY. The City of Earlington, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   CITY LICENSE. Any license issued by the city that a person or business is
required to obtain in order to engage in a specific activity within the city.
The term CITY LICENSE shall not include a city occupational license that a
person or businesss must obtain before engaging in any business in the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   ETHICS ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A person designated and vested by this
subchapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of this
subchapter.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse and unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or the employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Councilmember;
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994; Ord. 2013-2, passed 4-11-2013)
§ 31.66 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city officer or employee or member of his or her immediate family
shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in any business,
transaction, or professional activity, which is in substantial conflict with
the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interests.
   (B)   No city officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his or her
official position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or
herself.
   (C)   No city officer shall act in his or her official capacity in any
matter where he or she, a member of his or her immediate family, or a business
organization in which he or she has an interest has a direct or indirect
financial or personal involvement that might reasonably be expected to impair
his or her objectivity or independence of judgement.
   (D)   No city officer or employee shall undertake any employment or service,
compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice his or her
independence of judgment in the exercise of his or her official duties.
   (E)   No city officer or employee shall be prohibited from giving or
receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the lender's
business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals and refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearances,
ceremonies, or fact-finding trips related to official city government business.
   (F)   No city officer shall be prohibited from accepting a gratuity for
solemnizing a marriage.
   (G)   No city officer or employee shall use, or allow to be used, in his or
her public office or employment any information not generally available to the
members of the public, which he or she receives or acquires in the course of
and by the reason of his or her office or employment, for the purpose of
securing financial gain for himself or herself, any member of his or her
family, or any business organization with which he or she is associated.
   (H)   No city officer, employee, or agency shall directly, or indirectly
through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair
market value of more than $200 per year, whether in the form of money, service,
loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any other form,
under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence, the
officer or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
   (I)   No city officer, employee, or agency shall intentionally use or
disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official duties, if
the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her personal
financial interest or that of another person or business. Information shall be
deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the State
Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
   (J)   No city officer, employee, or agency shall accept any compensation,
honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $200 per year in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities
outside of municipal service with the city.
   (K)   No city officer or employee shall act in his or her official capacity
in any matter, including but not limited to the enactment of any ordinance,
resolution, or other matter required to be voted upon or subject to executive
approval, that is related to any business, profession, or occupation for which
the city officer or employee, or a business organization in which such officer
or employee holds an interest, holds a city license.
   (L)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a city officer, employee, or
agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf of the city
actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer or
employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article, provided that
the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence that his or
her expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city agency and
not primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee, or any other person.
   (M)   No city officer shall be deemed in conflict with these provisions if,
by reason of his or her participation in the enactment of any ordinance,
resolution, or other matter required to be voted upon or which is subject to
executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain could reasonably be
expected to accrue to any other member of the business, profession, occupation,
or group.
   (N)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a city officer or employee from
performing any duty that the city officer or employee is required to perform
under state law.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994; Ord. 2013-2, passed 4-11-2013) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.67 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   After the effective date of this subchapter, a member of the immediate
family of a city officer or employee shall not be compensated more than others
in like job positions.
   (B)   All family members must meet job qualifications.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.68 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial
disclosure statement:
      (1)   Elected officers; and
      (2)   Candidates for elected office.
   (B)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number, and home
address of filer;
      (3)   Title of filer's public office sought;
      (4)   Occupation of filer and spouse; and
      (5)   Name and address of each source of income of the filer and spouse
from within the state which exceed $5,000, during the preceding calendar year.
   (C)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing the
statement of financial interest. Knowingly signing a fraudulent statement shall
be a Class A misdemeanor.
   (D)   All pay and benefits shall be withheld until a noncomplying officer
and employee is in compliance with the filing requirements. Candidates and
nominees who fail to comply with these filing requirements shall be fined $50
for each day they are in noncompliance.
   (E)   The financial disclosure statements shall be filed with the County
Clerk no later than April 15 of each year. Should a position be vacated, the
appointee is to file his or her financial disclosure in 30 days.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.69 ENFORCEMENT; BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this subchapter to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the City
Council. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed
office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
any city agency. The members shall serve for a term of two year(s). No member
of the Board of Ethics shall be a resident of the city.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the City Council, for misconduct, inability, or willful
neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from
office under this section, the member, upon written request, shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the Mayor and the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (F)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (G)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (H)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
   (I)   The Mayor of the city, with the approval of the City Council, may
appoint one alternate member of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to
serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this subchapter that apply to regular members.
   (J)   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Council in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics with the facilities,
materials, supplies, and staff needed for the conduct of its business,
including, but not limited to, clerical and legal services. Further, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall receive all documents filed for or on behalf of the Board
of Ethics, and shall immediately communicate to the Board of Ethics the fact
and contents of any and all documents and other writings received by him or her
on behalf of the Board.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.70 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual who has the power to administer
oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this subchapter to
the Mayor, the City Council, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person
or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers,
employees, appointees, and volunteers regarding whether a given set of facts
and circumstances would constitute a violation of any provision of this
subchapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this subchapter with regard to all
officers, employees, appointees, and volunteers of the city and city agencies
who are subject to its terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing
penalties authorized by this subchapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain, through the City Clerk-Treasurer, all
statements of financial interest that are required to be filed by this
subchapter and to ensure that the statements are available for public
inspection in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and the State
Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Council;
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this subchapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
subchapter or any state or federal law;
   (J)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer,
employee, appointee, or volunteer of the city or city agency who is covered by
this subchapter;
   (K)   A request for an advisory opinion shall be in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific question. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor;
   (L)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that, before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed;
   (M)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (N)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion; and
   (O)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this subchapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.71 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer, employee,
appointee, or volunteer of the city or city agency who is the subject of the
complaint a copy of this complaint and the applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board; except the Board may turn over to the
State's Attorney or County Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal
proceedings.
   (D)   Within 45 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board shall
make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry whether the complaint is
within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis
to constitute a violation of this subchapter. If the Board concludes that the
complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or without factual basis,
the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to
writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the complainant and to all
officers or employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer who is the
subject of the complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its
[MISSING MATERIAL]
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this subchapter has been proven. Within 30 days after the
completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its
findings and conclusions.
      (1)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this
subchapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
      (2)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is proof beyond a reasonable doubt of a
violation of this subchapter, the Board may:
         (a)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
         (b)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations
and provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor, the City Council, and the
governing body of the city agency with which the violator serves;
         (c)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline, or removal from office;
         (d)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of
not more than $1,000; and/or
         (e)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this subchapter or
state laws to the County Attorney or State's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
   (G)   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
subchapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the County Circuit
Court within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of Ethics
by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The Board shall transmit
to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing.
   (H)   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state
law, an action for a violation of this subchapter must be brought within one
year after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.72 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer of the city or any city
agency shall be subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten
to use, any official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which
tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or
discriminate against any person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges,
or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency
or official of the city or the state any facts or information relative to an
actual or suspected violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer of the city or
any city agency discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act (KRS 61.870 through 61.884); and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of the law.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.73 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon
publication as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
31.65 through
31.73.
      (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in §§
31.65 through
31.73, any officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer of the city or any city
agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of §§
31.65 through
31.73 shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil
fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
subchapter, any officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer of the city or any
city agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision
of §§
31.65 through
31.73 shall forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the
economic benefit or gain which the officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer
is determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture
within a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under §§
31.65 through
31.73, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer, employee, appointee,
or volunteer of the city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of §§
31.65 through
31.73 shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other
disciplinary action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or
by any other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any
action to remove or discipline any officer, employee, appointee, or volunteer
for a violation of §§
31.65 through
31.73 shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council shall
be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that 1
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the member of Council’s
electronic mail address and includes also the member of Council’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   There shall be a regular meeting of the City Council on the second
Tuesday night of each month, at 5:00 p.m., provided that, if the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next day
at the same hour.
      (2)   Effective March 1, 2023, the regular meetings of the City Council
shall be held at City Hall, 103 West Main Street, Earlington, Kentucky, at 5:00
p.m. prevailing local time.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Ord. passed 12-15-1987; Ord. passed 5-10-1988; Ord. 2007-2,
passed 2-27-2007; Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-23-2021; Ord. 2023-1, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only 1 subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: "Be it ordained by the City of Earlington."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on 2 separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of 2/3 of the membership,
the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and publication in
order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and describing the
emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within 10 days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Financing of improvements
   
33.17   Apportionment of cost
   
33.18   Comprehensive report required
   
33.19   Public hearing required
   
33.20   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.21   Affected owner may contest
   
33.22   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.23   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover 1 fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any 1 fiscal year in violation of § 157 of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the
purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) through (D), each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the most recent
federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every other
fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population of more than 1,000 but less than 2,000 based upon the most
recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since the prior audit
in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (F)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) through (D) of this section to the
Legislative Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to
6.975 or to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (G)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (H)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (I)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (J)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (K)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
city may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department
for Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department. The Department
shall approve the request if it is submitted on or before the applicable
deadline, and in the judgment of the Department the request is warranted by
extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted
under this division shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of
the audit or financial statement. If the Department approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (L) of this section shall apply.
   (L)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) through
(D) and (K) of this section, the Department shall notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department shall immediately notify the Cabinet when
the city complies with the requirements of divisions (A) through (D) and (K) of
this section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and the Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (M)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The start of the city's fiscal year shall commence on July 1.
(Ord. passed 11-23-1982)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.16 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.17 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.18 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.19 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.18, the city shall hold at least 1 public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.20 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.18 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.21 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.20, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.22 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.21, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.23 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.18 through
33.22 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Chief of Police; police officers
Fire Department
   
34.10   Establishment
   
34.11   Fire Chief; Assistant Fire Chief
Code Enforcement Board
   
34.25   Definitions
   
34.26   Establishment
   
34.27   Membership
   
34.28   Member appointment and terms of office
   
34.29   Organization and meetings of the members of the Board
   
34.30   Duties of the City Clerk
   
34.31   Powers
   
34.32   Enforcement proceedings
   
34.33   City remediation of continuing violation
   
34.34   Lienholder notification system
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
§ 34.02 CHIEF OF POLICE; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and regular
police officers.
   (B)   The Office of Chief of Police is hereby established.
   (C)   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, and may be removed by the Mayor,
with the approval of the City Council, except as tenure and terms of employment
are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Chief of Police unless that
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the State Constitution, and has
provided a bond in the sum of $50,000, with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein and with the qualifications set forth in division (E)
below.
   (E)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (F)   Subject to the executive authority of the city, the Chief of Police
shall be a peace officer and responsible for the organization and operation of
the Police Department of the city, and he or she shall supervise, direct, and
control the equipment and personnel thereof as peace officers of the city and
state in the enforcement of all statutes, laws, and ordinances thereof.
   (G)   The compensation of the Chief of Police and all police officers shall
be in an amount to be established by City Council by ordinance in accordance
with §
31.02.
   (H)   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall reside in the city.
An exception may be made only if it is determined by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council, that a qualified person cannot be found that is a
resident of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988; Ord. passed 12-27-1988)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city to be known as the
Earlington Volunteer Fire Department.
§ 34.11 FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Offices of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief are hereby
established.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; and may be
removed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief unless that person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the State
Constitution and has provided a bond in the sum of $0, with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
   (D)   Subject to the executive authority of the city and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the volunteer firefighters and approved by the
Mayor, the Fire Chief shall be responsible for the organization and operation
of the Fire Department and shall supervise, direct, and control the equipment
of the Fire Department and the volunteer firefighters in their response to
fires and the extinguishment thereof and the plans, preparations, procedures,
practice, and training in regard thereto, and may, as Fire Chief, perform or
cause to be performed all other actions authorized by law, ordinance, or
regulation.
   (E)   The compensation of the Fire Chief shall be in an amount to be
established by City Council by ordinance, in accordance with §
31.02.
   (F)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall reside in the city. An
exception may be made only if it is determined by the Mayor, with the approval
of the City Council, that a qualified person cannot be found that is a resident
of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988; Ord. passed 12-27-1988)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 34.25 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the words, phrases and terms defined in KRS
65.8805 shall have the same meaning as those provided in that statute.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.26 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 65.8808(1), there is hereby created a Code
Enforcement Board for the city which shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing those ordinances of the
city that expressly provide that each violation thereof constitutes a civil
offense, including, without limitation, any zoning or nuisance ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.27 MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Code Enforcement Board hereby created shall always be
composed of five natural persons, each of whom shall:
   (A)   Have been a resident of the city for a period of at least one year
prior to the date of his or her appointment; and
   (B)   Continue to reside in the city throughout their term in office.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.28 MEMBER APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor
but only with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointments to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year, beginning at
midnight on the evening of July 1, 2021 and ending at midnight on the evening
of June 30, 2022 and the appointment and qualification of a successor.
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of two years, beginning
at midnight on the evening of July 1, 2021 and ending at midnight on the
evening of June 30, 2023 and the appointment and qualification of their
successors.
      (3)   Two members of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three
years, beginning at midnight on the evening of July 1, 2021 and ending at
midnight on the evening of June 30, 2024 and the appointment and qualification
of their successors.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments of members of the Board shall be for a
term of three years.
   (D)   Members of the Board may be reappointed, subject to the approval of
the City Council.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.29 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Bi-annual meetings of the members of the Code Enforcement Board shall
be conducted on the 3rd Monday in July and January at 6:00 p.m. in each
calendar year at the City Hall.
   (B)   At the annual meeting, the Code Enforcement Board shall elect a
Chairperson from among its members. The Chairperson shall be the presiding
officer and a full voting member of the Board. In the absence of the
Chairperson, the remaining members of the Board shall select a member to
preside in place of and exercise the powers of the Chairperson.
   (C)   The annual meeting and all other meetings of the members of the Code
Enforcement Board for administrative hearings or otherwise shall be public
meetings and shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of KRS
65.8815(5) and KRS 61.800 through 61.850.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.30 DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the administrative official to
whom the code enforcement officer is required by KRS 65.8825 to deliver copies
of civil citations that have been issued.
   (B)   Additionally, the City Clerk shall provide the clerical and
administrative personnel necessary for the proper conduct of the duties of the
Code Enforcement Board, which shall include, without limitation:
      (1)   The preparation and maintenance of the minutes of the proceedings
of each meeting of the Code Enforcement Board, which shall be kept and shall
include the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board.
      (2)   Notification of each member of the Board of each request for a
hearing in regard to a civil citation issued by a code enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.31 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have all of the authority, powers and
duties provided in the Local Government Enforcement Act KRS 65.8801 through
65.8839.
   (B)   Additionally, and pursuant to the authority of KRS 65.8840(2), the
provisions of KRS 65.8840 shall be enforced through the Code Enforcement Board;
and each violation thereof shall constitute a civil offense.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance or statute identified as
being violated in a civil citation, the civil penalties that may be imposed by
the Code Enforcement Board are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   In the event that a civil citation is not contested, the specific
civil fine that shall be imposed for each separate violation is hereby
established at $100 for a first violation, $250 for a second occurrence of the
same violation and $500 for the third and each subsequent occurrence of the
same violation, plus costs of collection, including, without limitation, court
costs and attorney fees.
      (2)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed for each separate
violation is hereby established at $500 for a first violation, $750 for a
second occurrence of the same violation and $1,000 for the third and each
subsequent occurrence of the same violation, plus costs of collection,
including, without limitation, court costs and attorney fees.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.32 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The procedure of the Code Enforcement Board for the enforcement of
ordinances and KRS 65.8840 shall always be in conformity with the procedures
therefor provided in Local Government Enforcement Act KRS 65.8801 through
65.8839.
   (B)   Additionally, and in addition to the information required in a civil
citation by KRS 65.8825(4), the civil citation required by KRS 65.8825 to
initiate enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall also
include information about the remediation of continuing violations by the city
at the cost and expense of the person named in the civil citation.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.33 CITY REMEDIATION OF CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   In the event of a continuation of a violation of an ordinance described in a
civil citation issued by a code enforcement officer after a final order in
regard thereto, as defined in KRS 65.8805, the city may enter upon the premises
thereof and remediate the violation through its own forces and employees or by
contracts with others; and, thereupon, the person named in the civil citation
shall be liable to the city for the cost and expense of that remediation plus
the costs of collection, including court costs and attorney fees, plus all
civil fines imposed by the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.34 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   For the purpose of the lien provided by KRS 65.8835(1) taking precedence
over previously recorded liens as provided in KRS 65.8835(1)(c), the executive
authority of the city shall develop and implement a notification system in
conformity with the provisions of KRS 65.8836.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-21-2021)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
35.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
35.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
35.17   Public records not immediately available
   
35.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
35.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
35.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
35.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
35.22   Format of copies
   
35.23   Fees for copies
   
35.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
35.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
35.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
35.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of Earlington, Kentucky.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency discussed in division (8) of
the definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e..
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 35.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 35.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 35.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 35.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 35.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 35.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
35.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 35.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
35.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or
for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 35.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes.  The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
35.25
§ 35.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
35.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
35.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 35.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments.
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the office for Security Coordination
and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapters 45A or 56.
This exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without an award of a
contract and there is a determination that the contract will not be
resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
government function.
      (19)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the possible
applicability of §
35.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
§ 35.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL
Section
   
36.01   Participation in County Employees Retirement System
§ 36.01 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System, effective 7-1-1999, and all eligible regular full-time
officers and employees of the city are hereby authorized and directed to comply
with the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All the employees of the city whose duties require an average of 100
hours "of actual work" during each working month shall be considered as
"regular full-time" employees for county retirement purposes, except those
employees of agencies excluded as shown in division (C) below which may
participate in the system as a separate agency and those other persons who are
employed as "temporary," "part-time," and "seasonal" workers, as defined in KRS
78.510(21) of the County Employees Retirement Laws. The Mayor and the City
Council are considered part-time employees for County Employees Retirement
System purposes.
   (C)   Agencies excluded as authorized by KRS 78.530 are: [MISSING MATERIAL]
(Ord. 31.46, passed 6-8-1999; Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-12-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
         
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Damaging or destroying sewer or water utility facilities
Sewer Use Regulations
   
50.020   Definitions
   
50.021   Connection with sewer system required
   
50.022   Sewer taps to be made only by city
   
50.023   Connection to sewer required for new premises
   
50.024   Toilet facilities required
   
50.025   Costs borne by owner
   
50.026   Private sewage disposal prohibited
   
50.027   Unsanitary discharges
   
50.028   Prohibited discharges
   
50.029   Amendment of regulations
   
50.030   Effective date for charges
   
50.031   All customers metered; no free service
Purchase and Use of Water
   
50.045   Definitions
   
50.046   Application for water service
   
50.047   Water service line installation
   
50.048   Purchase of water; shortage
   
50.049   Ownership of lines and meters
   
50.050   Prohibitions and conditions of use
   
50.051   Billing procedures
   
50.052   Meter installation; testing; accuracy
   
50.053   Service interruptions
   
50.054   Inspection by city employees
   
50.055   Customer responsibilities
   
50.056   Liability of customer
   
50.057   Water to be used for domestic consumption only
   
50.058   Easements to be granted to city
   
50.059   Water for special purposes
   
50.060   Line extensions
   
50.061   City may refuse service
   
50.062   Complaints
   
50.063   Statutes incorporated by reference
   
50.064   Restrictions on amendments
Water and Sewer Rates and Charges
   
50.080   Water and sewer rates
   
50.081   Water and sewer connection charges
   
50.082   Billing and collection procedures
   
50.083   Disconnections and reconnections; service charge
Delinquency Procedures
   
50.100   Customer-disputed billing
   
50.101   Termination of utility service
   
50.102   Summary turn-off; when permitted
   
50.103   Reinstatement of utility service
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING SEWER OR WATER UTILITY FACILITIES.
   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a
part of the sewer or water utility facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of criminal
mischief.
Penalty, see §
50.999
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE. The sewer system shall be considered AVAILABLE to any premises
which abut upon any street, road, alley, public or private way, or easement in
which there exists a sewer pipe, main, lateral, or other structure or
installation of the municipal sanitary sewer system to be constructed by the
city, capable of receiving flowable wastes, in which the city has brought a
sewer line to a point located at the edge of the property line or easement of
the owner of the premises.
   CITY. The City of Earlington, Kentucky, and, where the context so indicates,
actions on its behalf by the City Council, or any other body as shall be vested
with authority over the municipal sewer system of the city.
   PREMISES. All structures and improvements having flowable sewage wastes
which should be drained, treated, or disposed of in the interest of the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and specifically includes, but not by way
of limiting the generality of the foregoing: all homes; houses; apartments;
hotels; motels; trailer camps; manufacturing, business, commercial, or
industrial establishments; and other structures of any and every nature
whatsoever.
   SEWER SYSTEM or SEWERS. The City of Earlington municipal sewer system which
now provides, or as may hereafter provide, for the drainage, treatment, and
disposal of liquid or flowable sewage wastes.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964)
§ 50.021 CONNECTION WITH SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners and occupants of premises where sewers are now available,
or are hereafter made available, shall within 60 days from the date that the
Superintendent of the sewer system, or other duly authorized official of the
city, furnishes notice to the owner of the property, either by personal written
notice or by notice published in a local newspaper of general circulation
throughout the city, that the sewer line has been installed, placed in
operation, and is available to the premises, connect therewith all sanitary
sewerage drain pipes of the premises.
   (B)   All connections shall be made under the regulations as the city may
establish. Failure to effect the connection is hereby declared to be unlawful
and shall constitute a nuisance. No stormwater drain shall remain connected or
be connected with any separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter
constructed as, or made a part of, the sewer system of the city, nor shall any
stormwater be otherwise introduced to any such separate sanitary sewer.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of
this subchapter shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days
of the effective date of this subchapter. The owners of any building sewers
having any connections, leaks, or defects shall bear all costs incidental to
removal of those sources. Pipes, sumps, and pumps for those sources of ground
and surface water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of
those sources of water without presence of separate facilities shall be
evidence of drainage to public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Mayor before installation.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964; Ord. 50.021, passed 3-4-1999; Ord. 2008-4,
passed 6-10-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 SEWER TAPS TO BE MADE ONLY BY CITY.
   No sewer taps (breaking or entering into sewer lines of the city) shall be
made by any person, firm, or corporation except the city. The city will, upon
application to it and payment of whatever tapping or connection fee is or has
been prescribed by the city, tap the city sewer and run a lateral to the
property line or easement of any applicant where sewers are available, and any
and all installations or attachments thereto shall be made by the applicant
under the directions and supervision of the city. Nothing herein shall be
construed as requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services
to any premises where a city sewer line is not available at the time that the
application is made.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 CONNECTION TO SEWER REQUIRED FOR NEW PREMISES.
   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons who shall hereafter
erect new premises where sewers are available in the city shall, before
erecting the same, exhibit to the city satisfactory evidence that a means has
been or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewerage drain from the
building or structure with the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   Each owner of a house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and to
which sewer service is made available by the city, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the
facilities directly with the available public sewer in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of a
building sewer in the city shall be borne by the owner, who shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent of the sewer system or other duly authorized
official of the city.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964)
§ 50.026 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy, well,
vault, cesspool, cistern, septic tank, or similar contrivance for the reception
of flowable sewage where sewers are available in the city, and all the privies,
wells, vaults, cesspools, cisterns, septic tanks, facilities, and similar
contrivances shall be removed by the owners and the occupants of premises where
sewers are now available, or as soon as sewers are made available to those
premises. All the privies, facilities, and other means of casting or depositing
sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground, or upon or
into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water or into any
cistern or well, whereby the soil is contaminated with the sewage, are hereby
declared to be unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 UNSANITARY DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner, upon public or private property within the
city, any garbage or other objectionable waste, or to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city any sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided under the supervision of the
Superintendent of the municipal sewer system or other duly authorized city
official.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No substances shall be placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system
which will create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or inflammable condition
in the system, nor shall any substances or objects be placed or discharged into
the municipal sewer system which will not dissolve and will thus cause an
obstruction and clogging within the system. No petroleum products shall be
placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.029 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter may be amended at any time to provide more detailed
regulations as to the requirements for connection to or the use of the sewer
system of the city, provided, however, that this subchapter cannot be amended
in any way which may adversely affect the interests of holders of outstanding
bonds constituting an encumbrance against the municipal sewer system or against
the revenues thereof.
(Ord. 5-25-64-2, passed 5-25-1964)
§ 50.030 EFFECTIVE DATE FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   The water rates and charges shall be effective as to existing water
customers for the monthly billing beginning immediately after the effective
date of this subchapter, and shall be effective as to the respective premises
of new water customers beginning on the date on which each new customer
connects his or her premises to the water line made available to the premises.
   (B)   The sewer rates and charges shall be effective as to all premises
where new sewer lines are made available, as defined in §
50.020, upon the date of actual connection thereto, or on a date 60 days after
the Superintendent of the sewer system furnishes notice to the property owner,
either by personal written notice or by notice published in a local newspaper
of general circulation throughout the city, to the effect that sewer service is
available to the premises, whichever date is earlier.
(Ord. 5-25-64-1, passed 5-25-1964)
§ 50.031 ALL CUSTOMERS METERED; NO FREE SERVICE.
   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the waterworks system to be
metered. No one shall receive or be entitled to free water or sewer service or
to any such service without paying the full rates herein specified. The
schedule of rates herein prescribed for monthly water and sewer service shall
be uniformly charged to all customers of the combined and consolidated
municipal water works and sewer project, both within and without the city
limits.
(Ord. 5-25-64-1, passed 5-25-1964) Penalty, see §
50.999
PURCHASE AND USE OF WATER
§ 50.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Earlington, Kentucky, acting by and through its City
Council or any other body as shall be the governing body of the city under the
laws of the state at any given time.
   CUSTOMER. A property owner or his or her agent who is at least 18 years of
age and who has agreed to purchase water from the city.
   MANAGER. The manager, superintendent, or other person duly employed and
authorized by the city to supervise the operation of the system.
   SYSTEM. The municipal water works system of the city as now or hereafter
constituted.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-11-2003)
§ 50.046 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Each customer must make written application for water service at the City
Hall, and the application, including service received thereunder, is
unassignable by the customer.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.047 WATER SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION.
   Whenever the city determines it to be feasible to provide water service to a
customer, the city shall install, maintain, and operate a main distribution
pipeline or lines from the system's source of water supply and shall further
install and maintain, at the city's expense, any portions of the necessary
water service lines as may be needed to bring water from a water main to the
lot or easement line of a customer; provided, however, that, if the necessary
water service line from the water main to the water meter of a customer is
unusually long, as determined by the manager within guidelines fixed by the
city, the customer may be required to pay a portion of the cost of the service
line. The expense borne by the city, in any event, shall include the necessary
tap, fittings, and shut-off valve, which items shall belong to the city. Each
customer shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, that portion of the
service line from the lot or easement line to his or her premises, including a
stop and waste cock at the end of the house side of his or her service, which
items shall belong to the customer. The minimum earth cover of the customer's
service shall be 30 inches. The manager shall determine the size and kind of
service to be installed.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.048 PURCHASE OF WATER; SHORTAGE.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
any agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
any water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
any applicable ordinance and any rules and regulations that may be prescribed
by the city; provided, however, that should a customer sell or dispose of a
portion of his or her property or subdivide the same, he or she or the new
owner of each new tract may not demand water and taps without paying connection
fees for each tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all the needs of the customers or in the event there is a shortage of water,
the city or its manager may prorate the water available among the various
customers on the basis as is deemed equitable by the city or its manager, and
may also prescribe a schedule of hours covering use of water and require
adherence thereto or prohibit the use of water for specified purposes for the
appropriate period of time as may be necessary under the circumstances.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.049 OWNERSHIP OF LINES AND METERS.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, and other water equipment as shall be
paid for by the city.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.050 PROHIBITIONS AND CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Generally. The following regulations, prohibitions, and conditions
contained in this section and in §§
50.051 through
50.062 shall be deemed to supplement the Bond Ordinance and the Water Rate
Ordinance adopted by the city.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   All taps and connections to the mains of the city shall be made by
or under the direction and supervision of the manager.
      (2)   Water service may be discontinued by the manager for any violation
of any rule, regulation, or condition of service and especially for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the
property or fixtures to be supplied or additional use to be made of water;
         (b)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or
fixtures to be supplied or additional use to be made of water;
         (c)   Resale or giving away of water;
         (d)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service
pipes or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair;
         (e)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service, or valves or
permitting the tampering by others. Tampering is defined as the altering,
damaging or misusing of any of the water system including but not limited to
the meter, meter seal, service, or valves and shall include any contact with
the water meter or any of its contents without the express written approval of
the Mayor of Earlington or his or her designee;
         (f)   Connection, cross-connection, or permitting the same of any
separated water supply to premises which receive water from the city; and
         (g)   Nonpayment of bills.
      (3)   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water service to his or
her premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance, in writing, at
the City Hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all water used and
services rendered to the premises by the city unless the notice is received by
the city.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-11-2012) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.051 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of city will
be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the application unless a
change of address has been filed, in writing, with the city. The city shall not
otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice nor will the
customer be excused from the payment of any bill or any performance required in
the notice.
   (B)   Meters will be read monthly.
   (C)   Bills for water service are due and payable at the City Hall, or to
any designated agent, on the date of issue. Bills will be deemed due in full
the fifteenth day of each month. Between the sixteenth day and the twenty-
fourth day of each month, bills will be deemed delinquent and shall require a
10% penalty added to the bill. Any bill not paid by the close of business on
the twenty-fourth day of each month shall require a $25 surcharge, in addition
to the 10% late penalty fee, whether or not water service is cut off to the
home or not.
   (D)   On any bills deemed delinquent, the city may serve the customer a
final written notice of delinquency and disconnect water service in accordance
with §§
50.100 through
50.103.
   (E)   If a deadline date falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, the deadline
shall not expire until the next succeeding secular day.
   (F)   When payment in full is not paid by the close of business on the
twenty-fourth of each month, a surcharge of $50 will be added to the balance of
the customer’s water service, but the reconnection will not be made until after
all delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owed by the customer to the
city have been paid.
   (G)   The city shall have the right to require that a deposit of $150 be
placed on deposit with the city by a customer for the purpose of establishing
or maintaining the customer’s credit or as assurance for the payment of water
bills by the customer. Fifty dollars of the $150 shall be a non-refundable
service fee and $100 shall be credited to the customer’s account when vacating
the residence.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-11-2003; Ord. 2007-1,
passed 5-24-2007; Ord. 2020-3, passed 11-19-2020)
§ 50.052 METER INSTALLATION; TESTING; ACCURACY.
   (A)   All meters shall be installed, renewed, and maintained at the expense
of the city and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of
meter used.
   (B)   Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving the customer
shall be tested by the city. The test will be made without charge to the
customer if the meter has not been tested within 12 months preceding the
requested test; otherwise, a charge of $3 will be made and then only if the
test indicated meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is inaccurate
in excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior
to test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
   (C)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading could not be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six-month consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter failed to register.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.053 SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption
of service and, when the interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
consumers affected by the interruption will be notified in advance whenever it
is possible to do so.
   (B)   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains of service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure
or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be
entitled to damages nor for any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption of service which in the opinion of the city may be deemed
necessary.
   (C)   Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of
water from the city must have a check valve on the water supply line and a
vacuum valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case water supply from
the city is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 INSPECTION BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines, meters, and
fixtures, including any fixtures within the premises, shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by the duly authorized employees of the city.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.055 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that
connections are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains.
The customer shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed and
accessible at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff valve
on his or her side of the meter and the city will furnish a like valve on its
side of the meter.
   (B)   The customer's service line shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his or her own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the city's rules and regulations and with the regulations of
the Department of Health.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.056 LIABILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   If any loss or damage to the property of the city or any accident or other
injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence or
wrongful action of the customer, members of his or her household, or his or her
agent or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be
paid by the customer to the city, and any liability otherwise resulting shall
be that of the customer.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.057 WATER TO BE USED FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION ONLY.
   Water furnished by the city may be used for domestic consumption by the
customer, members of his or her household, and his or her employees only. The
customer shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.058 EASEMENTS TO BE GRANTED TO CITY.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any property
owned or controlled by the customer whenever the easement or right-of-way is
necessary for the city water facilities and lines so as to be able to furnish
service to the customer.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.059 WATER FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
being $25 and the amount to be determined by the city depending upon the size
of the construction work contemplated. All water for building or construction
purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon the material to be wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in no
case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench; and all use of water
by other than applicant or use of water for any purpose or upon any premises
not so stated or described in the application must be prevented by the
applicant, or water service may be discontinued without notice.
   (C)   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the
city or community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public
parks, and the like.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.060 LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city will construct extensions to its water lines to points within
its service area, but the city is not required to make those installations
unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the installation.
   (B)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
city and the person advancing funds for the extension, but each contract shall
be null and void unless approved by the Farmers Home Administration and other
governing bodies.
   (C)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: 20% of the total gross revenue of water sales per year for each service
connected to the new extension prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to
exceed five years, provided that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total
amount deposited.
   (D)   No refund shall be made from any revenue received from any lines
leading up to or beyond the particular line extension covered by contract.
   (E)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
city and the extension shall be the property of the city and no other person
shall have any right, title, or interest therein.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.061 CITY MAY REFUSE SERVICE.
   The city may refuse service to a person not presently a customer when, in
the opinion of the city, the capacity of the facilities will not permit the
service.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.062 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the manager of the system, whose decision may be
appealed to the governing body of the city within ten days; otherwise, the
manager's decision will be final.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.063 STATUTES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable state statutes which now or may hereafter exist are
incorporated herein and made a part of this subchapter, and the city may use
any powers therein contained in addition to those herein set out.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
§ 50.064 RESTRICTIONS ON AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter shall not be amended without the permission of the holders
of a majority (in amount) of outstanding bonds issued by the city, plus the
permission of the Farmers Home Administration, United States Department of
Agriculture, so long as the United States is the owner or insurer of any bonds
issued by the city and so long as any of the bonds remain unpaid.
(Ord. 3-14-78-2, passed 3-14-1978)
WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.080 WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Generally. The rates and charges for water and sewer services
furnished by the city are hereby fixed and established on a monthly basis as
follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Minimum water rates.
         (a)   Minimum water rates for citizens of the city.
            1.   The following minimum monthly charges shall apply to the first
2,000 gallons (or less) of water used by the premises and classifications
respectively designated below:
 
Classification                             Amount
Flat rate (residence)                      $23.50
-inch, ¾-inch, 1¼-inch, and 1½-inch mete$23.50
2-inch meter                               $30
3-inch meter                               $40
4-inch meter                               $50
6-inch meter                               $60
 
            2.   The rates for water usage for the premises and classifications
as to water usage in excess of the first 2,000 gallons shall be identical with
the rates for the additional usage specified in division (B)(2) below.
         (b)   Minimum water rates for customers outside the city limits.
            1.   The following minimum monthly charges shall apply to the first
2,000 gallons (or less) of water used by the premises and classifications
respectively designated below:
 
Classification         Amount
Flat rate (residence)  $28
-inch to 1½-inch meter$28
2-inch meter           $40
3-inch meter           $60
4-inch meter           $80
6-inch meter           $100
 
            2.   The rates for water usage for the premises and classifications
as to water usage in excess of the first 2,000 shall be identical with the
rates for the additional usage specified in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   The following metered charges shall be made for each additional
1,000 gallons of water consumption per month after the first 2,000 gallons on
all size connections. Charges at a rate of $12 for each additional 1,000
gallons of usage. This charge is set both for inside or outside of city limits.
      (3)   Monthly sewer rates. The rates or charges for sewer service shall
be $32 per first 2,000 gallons of water used as set forth on the monthly water
bill. After the first 2,000 gallons of water used, the charge will be $13.50
per 1,000 gallons. The minimum sewer bill shall be $32 per month, apart from
the surcharge referred to in the ensuing division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   Surcharge for sewage collection. In the event there is a rate
increase from the City of Madisonville or the South Hopkins Water District to
the City of Earlington for their services, any rate increases by the City of
Madisonville or the South Hopkins Water
District shall automatically be passed on in the same proportion to the
customers of the City of Earlington's water services.
      (5)   Rates are exclusive of sales tax. The foregoing rates are rates to
be charged by the city, and any applicable state sales tax shall be added to
each bill as a separate charge.
(Ord. 3-14-78-1, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 1999-3, passed 7-22-1999; Ord. 2005-2,
passed 5-10-2005; Ord. 2007-5, passed 7-3-2007; Ord. 2010-7, passed 3-9-2010;
Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. passed 5-24-2021; Ord. 50.081, passed 2-14-
2023; Ord. 24-06, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 50.081 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   Where laterals are available, the water works connection charge shall
continue to be $250 for all size connections, and the sewer connection charge
shall continue to be $500 for all size connections. Where laterals are not
available, the connection charges for either water or sewer connections shall
be based on the time and material expended in making the connection, and shall
include a 10% administrative cost.
(Ord. 3-14-78-1, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010)
§ 50.082 BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. The Water and Sewer Department of the city will implement
the following billing procedures.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Meter readings; records.
         (a)   The geographic distribution area for water and sewer customers
of the system will be divided into eight routes, using city streets as route
boundaries.
         (b)   A route ledger will be maintained for each route, bearing the
appropriate number (one through eight) to correspond with the route for which
the ledger is maintained. A subsidiary ledger meter card for each service
location, designed to cover a two-year period, shall also be maintained, and
the subsidiary ledger meter cards shall be arranged and filed in the order of
the reading of meters in the respective route. Provision shall be made on the
cards for the recording of service on a fiscal year basis, ending on June 30 of
each year, to coincide with the city's fiscal year. When a meter is read, the
reading for the current month shall be recorded, and furnished to the
accounting clerk, who shall subtract the previous month's reading from the
current month's reading to compute the water usage for billing purposes.
      (2)   Collection policy. If a bill is not paid within 15 days following
the end of the billing cycle applicable to the bill, the bill shall be
considered delinquent, and there shall be imposed a penalty on each bill not so
paid, in an amount equal to 10% of the charges (other than sales tax) shown on
the face amount of the delinquent bill. If the bill is not paid within 30 days
following the end of the applicable billing cycle, the water service of the
customer will be disconnected as set forth in §§
50.100 through
50.103.
(Ord. 3-14-78-1, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010)
§ 50.083 DISCONNECTIONS AND RECONNECTIONS; SERVICE CHARGE.
   When service is disconnected or reconnected to the premises of any customer
for the convenience of the customer, a service charge of $10 shall be made, if
the disconnection or reconnection is made during regular working hours. If the
disconnection or reconnection, for the convenience of any customer, is made at
night after regular working hours, or on a Sunday or a legal holiday, the
service charge shall be $25.
(Ord. 3-14-78-1, passed 3-14-1978; Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010)
DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES
§ 50.100 CUSTOMER-DISPUTED BILLING.
   (A)   A utility customer may dispute the correctness of all or part of the
monthly billing charged for utility service, in accordance with the procedure
set forth in this section. The utility customer aggrieved by an error in the
monthly billing shall notify the utility within the time permitted; otherwise,
the right to dispute the billing shall be deemed waived. A utility customer who
has disputed all or part of a monthly billing pursuant to this section shall
not be entitled to dispute these amounts when carried forward as a part of a
subsequent billing.
   (B)   The procedure to resolve disputed billing charges shall be as follows.
      (1)   A customer aggrieved by a monthly billing shall notify the utility,
in writing, within ten calendar days from the date the billing was issued. The
notice shall state the portion of the billing amount which is in dispute, and
set forth the reasons the customer believes he or she is not obligated to pay
as billed.
      (2)   If the utility determines that the dispute is timely filed, and is
not an attempt to rechallenge amounts disputed under a previous billing, a
representative of the utility shall schedule a hearing between the customer and
the City Council.
      (3)   The customer shall be given notice of the time and place of the
hearing and advised to bring all information relevant to the dispute.
      (4)   At the hearing, the utility and the customer shall be entitled to
present all evidence that is, in the City Council's view, relevant and material
to the dispute, and to examine and cross-examine witnesses. A written record of
the hearing shall be maintained.
      (5)   Based on the record established at the hearing, the City Council,
within 15 days of the completion of the hearing, shall issue its written
decision formally resolving the dispute. This decision shall be final and
binding on the utility and the customer.
   (C)   Until the date of the City Council's decision, the utility shall not
terminate the customer's utility service, and shall not issue a notice of
termination solely for nonpayment of the disputed amounts.
   (D)   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve the utility
customer of his or her obligation to timely and completely pay all other
undisputed utility billing charges or installments and surcharges, and the
undisputed portions of billings which are the subject of the present dispute.
Failure by the customer to timely and completely pay all the undisputed amounts
shall subject the customer to termination of utility service in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
§ 50.101 TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   When a utility customer has not timely challenged all or part of a
monthly billing, pursuant to §
50.100, and the customer has become 30 days delinquent in the payment of the
account, the utility shall initiate the termination of utility service by
mailing to the customer a notice of termination.
   (B)   Where a utility customer has challenged a billing pursuant to §
50.100, and the matter has been finally resolved, the utility shall, within 15
days after the final decision is issued, mail to the customer a notice of
termination.
   (C)   The notice of termination shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The amount to be paid;
      (2)   The date the notice of termination was issued;
      (3)   The date on which a termination of utility service shall occur. The
date of termination shall be 15 calendar days after the date on which the
notice of termination was issued;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the utility receives full payment of the
amount shown on the notice of termination prior to the date of termination,
utility service will be terminated; and
      (5)   The telephone number of the utility and the name of a person to
contact regarding the billing charge.
   (D)   If, prior to the date of termination, the utility has not received
complete payment of the amount shown on the notice of termination, then the
utility shall terminate utility service provided to the customer on the date of
termination.
   (E)   If the utility receives payment of the entire amount shown on the
notice prior to the date of termination, the payment shall be considered timely
and shall halt the termination process.
§ 50.102 SUMMARY TURN-OFF; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   It is the policy of city utilities to notify customers prior to
termination of service. In certain circumstances, delivery of written notice
may be impossible or impractical when balanced against the need to protect the
system against waste of water, leaks, contamination, or other hazard.
   (B)   The utility may direct the temporary turn-off of service to one or
more customers where the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Leaks, breaks, or failure in the mains, services, pumping
machinery, or other equipment require a partial or total discontinuance in
service; and/or
      (2)   Instances where contaminates dangerous to health have entered the
water system, necessitating a total or partial discontinuance of service.
§ 50.103 REINSTATEMENT OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   When service to a customer has been terminated for a default in payment, and
the customer has completely paid all arrearages due on the account, including
fees associated with the restoration of service as set forth in §
50.083, the utility shall reinstate utility service to the customer as soon as
it is practical.
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any person except an industrial user who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount of not less than $100 and not more than $500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense. Any industrial user who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be fined in an amount of at least $1,000 for each violation. Each
day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 6-10-2008)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Private garbage collection prohibited
   
51.03   Rates; proceeds
   
51.04   Billing; collection; delinquency
   
51.05   Compulsory collection
   
51.06   Nuisance conditions regulated
   
51.07   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who, for hire, collects, removes, or disposes of
refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage, and
industrial and domestic wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as
meat, fruit, or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets, or
places dealing in the handling of meats, fowl, fruits, grain, or vegetables;
offal, animal excreta, the carcass of animals, tree or shrub trimmings, dirt,
wood, stove, brick, plaster, or materials resulting from the demolition,
alteration, or construction of buildings or structures, accumulated waste
materials or substances which may become nuisances, some of which are more
particularly classified as follows.
      (1)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste materials from kitchens, dining rooms, and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained and solid matter wrapped
in paper.
      (2)   RAW GARBAGE. Garbage not drained or wrapped as in division (1)
above.
      (3)   TRASH. Waste material containing no putrid matter or organic
wastes.
   REFUSE COLLECTION. The gathering of refuse containers and their contents
from the premises of improved property and loading contents into removal
vehicles and returning containers to place where found after contents have been
emptied, for which the charge is made as provided for in §
51.03.
   REFUSE CONTAINERS.
      (1)   GARBAGE CONTAINER. Standard containers for the storage of garbage
shall be substantially made of metal, leak-proof, and watertight; shall have a
capacity of approximately 20 gallons; and shall be equipped with an adequate
carrying bail and tight-fitting metal cover.
      (2)   TRASH CONTAINER. Standard containers for the storage of trash shall
be substantially made of metal, shall have a capacity of not less than ten or
more than 30 gallons, and shall be equipped with at least two carrying handles,
with a tight-fitting metal cover, or as shall otherwise be prescribed by the
Council.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL. The disposal of refuse in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the Council.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985)
§ 51.02 PRIVATE GARBAGE COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, except the
city, to engage in or conduct the business of collection, removal, or disposal
of refuse within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee may, with the approval of Council,
promulgate and enforce any and all reasonable rules and regulations deemed
necessary or proper from time to time to carry out the objects and purposes of
this chapter and for the health and welfare of the citizens of the city in
respect of the collection, removal, and disposal of refuse as defined in §
51.01.
   (C)   Private scavengers, push cart operators, and private garbage
collectors are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting
or disposing of garbage or refuse containing organic wastes, putrid matter, and
wastes or excreta subject to putrefaction, unless approved by Council.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985; Ord. passed 2-25-1986)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 RATES; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Rates.
      (1)   In order to make the service proposed in this chapter revenue-
producing and to defray the expenses of collection, removal, disposal,
maintenance, cost of acquiring or construction of a garbage disposal system and
necessary facilities, there shall be, and there hereby is established, a
schedule of fees, rates, and charges for refuse collection, removal, and
disposal, as follows:
         (a)   For periodic, routine, residential, and commercial collection
services: $17 per month; and
         (b)   For commercial establishments whose refuse collection is
sufficiently great as to require bi-weekly or more frequent collection: no less
than $17 per month. An additional amount shall be charged for those customers
with extra heavy amounts of refuse or for the customers that require special
handling, and these charges shall be determined by the City Council or its
designated employees.
         (c)   The solid waste collection fee per 96 gallon roll cart
containers shall be $20.50 per container per month.
      (2)   The rates and charges set out herein shall apply against all
residences, apartments, single-family units or single-person units and on
separate residential units; and the rates shall apply as against the owners of
the residences as well as the occupants or tenants thereof, and shall apply as
to the persons in control of the residences; except that only one fee shall be
collected for each separate unit as mentioned, but it may be collected from any
of the persons mentioned herein, and all of the persons shall be jointly and
severally liable for the rates charged.
      (3)   The rates charged for commercial customers apply to the owners or
persons in control of the premises and to the tenants or person occupying same,
in the same manner.
      (4)   All rates apply against those charged, and against the properties
described, whether or not garbage or refuse is collected by the city from the
properties described.
      (5)   In this chapter, the words COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS, or COMMERCIAL
COLLECTIONS, shall refer to garbage or refuse collection from any place other
than that used exclusively as a home or residence.
   (B)   Use of proceeds.
      (1)   The proceeds of the collection shall be placed in a Garbage
Collection Service Charge, Maintenance, and Operation Fund, to be used for the
expenses of collection of garbage and refuse, including payment of salaries and
wages to employees, truck operation and maintenance, repairs and replacement of
equipment, expense on the city disposal grounds or landfill site as herein
referred to and other matters relating to expended for garbage, trash, or
refuse collection and disposal.
      (2)   Any surplus remaining in the fund quarterly shall be paid to the
city for general municipal purposes, pursuant to the law provided for those
cases.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Res. passed 1-14-1975; Ord. passed 11-12-1985; Ord.
2000-7, passed 10-26-2000; Ord. 2007-6, passed 7-3-2007; Ord. 2022-2, passed 4-
12-2022)
§ 51.04 BILLING; COLLECTION; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with the duty of mailing a
statement on or before the tenth day of each month to each person charged with
refuse collection, removal, or disposal during the preceding month, but failure
to mail any statement for monthly charges shall not be grounds for avoiding
payment. The statement shall be mailed with the regular monthly water bill and
collected with that bill.
   (B)   If the fee, rate, or charge for any monthly service charge is not paid
within 15 days after it is due, the amount thereof shall then be delinquent. In
those cases, a notice may be served by the city upon the delinquent occupant,
owner, or person in charge of custody of the premises, to the effect that,
unless the garbage fees are paid within five days after presentation of the
notice, the city will bring proceedings in district court charging a violation
of this section. Further, the notice shall state that garbage collection
service shall be discontinued and shall not be restored until the delinquent
account is paid, together with the expenses, if any, incurred by the city
within a five-day period after the notice is served.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be collector of the charges imposed under
the provisions of this chapter and shall keep proper records showing all
collections made and received. All accounts shall be properly audited annually
by a competent independent certified public accountant, and the report thereof
shall be open for inspection at all times to any taxpayer or citizen of the
city, or any person receiving the service under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Res. passed 1-14-1975; Ord. passed 11-12-1985)
§ 51.05 COMPULSORY COLLECTION.
   Collection of garbage by the city shall be compulsory in the interest of
health, to dispose of same in order to prevent the occurrence of a public
health nuisance.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 NUISANCE CONDITIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   Uncollected garbage and refuse are hereby declared to constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about, or upon premises owned, occupied, or used by
them, when and if the accumulation is unsightly, unsanitary, or hazardous to
the property, life, health, safety, or welfare of the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or scatter any
garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse over or upon any premises, street, or
alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, either with or without
the intent to later remove or burn the same, or to suffer or permit from the
accumulation of refuse any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by any such
person to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public
health, or hazardous from fire.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the
accumulation of refuse on or about his or her premises, or the premises
occupied by him or her, unless the refuse is kept separately in standard trash
and garbage containers as defined in §
51.01.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any municipal employee to collect or remove,
at city expense, any refuse from the premises of any person or tenant thereof,
unless the premises are equipped with standard or approved containers referred
to in §
51.01 and unless the refuse is kept stored in the containers.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or store garbage in
refuse containers unless the garbage has been prepared for collection, removal,
and disposal and complies with the definition of "prepared garbage" as set out
in this chapter.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of refuse as
hereinabove defined within the corporate limits of the city, or elsewhere,
except at the landfill site located in the southern portion of the county. This
landfill is out of the city limits.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985; Ord. passed 2-25-1986)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   In order to further carry out the objectives and purposes of this chapter
and for the health and welfare of the citizens, it shall be the duty of the
Police Department of the city to enforce this chapter against violations or
infractions.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing or
refusing to abide by and comply with the rules or regulations promulgated to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 and costs.
Each succeeding day a violation exists shall constitute a new and separate
offense.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-9-1970; Ord. passed 11-12-1985)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   TRUCKS, TRAILERS, AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
         
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of police officers
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Authority to erect signs
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Defective devices
   
70.21   Temporary control of devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the State Attorney's office when on official business,
and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police or other person or persons authorized
by the legislative body to direct the implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and any other portions of the roadway between
two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked
by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, this county, or this city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver
to violate any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise
permitted in this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of all peace officers to direct traffic in conformance
with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as set forth in
this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Ord. 1-7-47-3, passed 1-7-1947)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police shall, at his or her discretion,
have authority to impose any traffic regulations as he or she may deem
necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these temporary
regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall be notified, in writing, of the extended order.
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to mark with proper
signs and signals any major and through streets as have been or may hereafter
be so designated by ordinances enacted by the legislative body.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to erect and maintain
suitable signs for the designation of one-way streets.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by
a traffic-control sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or
"Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights for purposes of traffic control,
the following colors only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall
indicate and be obeyed as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Green alone or "Go." Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place
prohibits either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-
of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at
the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
      (3)   Red alone or double red or "Stop." Vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or
at any other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall
remain standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
      (4)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at any other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
      (5)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
the signal.
      (6)   "Yield Right-of-Way." Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
      (7)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at the place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police shall determine the character of all official traffic-
control devices and shall have the exclusive right to establish and maintain
all official traffic-control devices in the city, when and as required under
this traffic code, and may place and maintain any additional traffic-control
devices as he or she may deem necessary. All traffic-control devices shall be
the same general type and all the traffic devices employed to indicate one
particular warning or regulation shall be uniform and as far as possible shall
be placed uniformly. All signs shall conform to those recommended by the
National Conference on Street and Highway Safety.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign shall be approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the Chief of Police is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause
it to be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEFECTIVE DEVICES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, the sign herein required is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. However,
when any particular section of this traffic code does not state that signs are
required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed to give
notice thereof.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY CONTROL OF DEVICES.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
more than $100.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Obstruction to view of driver
   
71.06   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Following emergency vehicles; driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission
   
71.28   Driving under the influence of intoxicating substances
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the Chief of Police to be of special or
critical importance to the movement of traffic shall be caused by him or her to
be marked in a distinctive manner in order to indicate its importance. Should
the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked when there is
insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to accommodate the
vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal notwithstanding, he or
she shall be deemed to have violated this division (C) rather than division (B)
above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   No U-turns shall be made at intersections of any street or way.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in the manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OBSTRUCTION TO VIEW OF DRIVER.
   No person shall operate a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are in
the front seat the number of persons exceeding three, as to obstruct the view
of the operator to the front or sides of the vehicle, or so as to interfere
with the operator's control over the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction to operator's view or control, see KRS 189.470(1)
§ 71.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   On all streets other than those set out in
Ch. 75, Sch. I, no vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish speed limits, see KRS 189.390(4)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle not on official
duty to follow an authorized emergency vehicle, traveling in response to a fire
alarm or other emergency, closer than 200 feet, or to park any vehicle within a
block in any direction of the location where emergency vehicles are responding
to a fire alarm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive over
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private
driveway, to be used at any fire, or alarm of fire, or for any other purpose,
without the consent of the Fire Department official in command or on duty at
that point.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in such manner as to cause it to
emit unnecessary smoke, gas, or vapor.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within the
city while under the influence of alcohol or any other substance which may
impair one's driving ability.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see KRS 189A.010(1)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or "cruising" as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of its customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and/or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Chief of Police on forms provided by the officer.
   (B)   An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the Chief of
Police not less than five days nor more than 60 days before the date on which
it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, on behalf of, or for any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file with
the Chief of Police a communication, in writing, from the person authorizing
the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee of $3.50.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and/or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval, in
writing, of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall act on the application for a parade permit within
three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If
he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating
the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the legislative body. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The legislative body shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different than that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within three days after notice of the action
of the Chief of Police, file a written notice of his or her acceptance with the
Chief of Police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements
of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall
send a copy thereof to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Any other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary to
the enforcement of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade Chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit
issued hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set
forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
more than $100.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
71.05 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction, be subject to
a fine of not less than $20 nor more than $100, in conformance with KRS 189.990
(1).
   (C)   Whoever violates §
71.06 shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same fine as set forth in the
fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
71.28 shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same penalty as established for
this offense in KRS 189A.010.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 76
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that, where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless it is
within 12 inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading, provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.
      (1)   However, diagonal parking shall not be established where the
roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet of the center line of
any street.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall designate those places by suitable signs,
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within which the vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop or park any vehicle, except in a case of real emergency, in compliance
with the provisions of this traffic code, or when directed by a police officer
or traffic sign or signal, at any time in the following places.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of any corner or intersection of a street;
      (3)   On a sidewalk;
      (4)   Within four feet of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   Within a crosswalk;
      (7)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (8)   Close enough to any railroad track so as to obstruct the movement
of locomotives or cars;
      (9)   On that portion of public property located between the sidewalk and
the curb line of the street on and along U.S. Highway 41 (South Railroad
Street) and KY Highway 112 (West Main Street);
      (10)   On either side of Wilson Street between Railroad Street and
Highland Avenue;
      (11)   On either side of Belleview Street between Railroad Street and
Highland Avenue;
      (12)   On either side of the 200 block of East Farren Avenue between
Railroad Street and Robinson Street; and
      (13)   At all places within the city limits as posted by signs at the
discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947; Ord. 2003-2, passed 8-26-2003) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall determine on what streets or portions
thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever, under
authority of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance, any parking limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to handicapped parking, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting
the signs or in conjunction therewith, the Chief of Police may cause the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times to be painted a solid yellow color. No regulations or restrictions shall
be effective unless the signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs
are painted yellow at the time of any alleged offense, except in the case of
those parking restrictions which by their very nature would not require the
signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to designate daily street cleaning
areas and he or she shall provide suitable signs and markings on the street to
be cleaned, restricting parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized, whenever in his or her judgment it
is necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to
erect temporary traffic signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent the
parking.
   (B)    It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicles will be removed at the
owner's expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21  RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of state law,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with this section, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with this section have not been paid, the motor vehicle
and its contents, except as set forth in division (B), may be sold to pay the
charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified by certified mail
at the addresses specified in state law ten days prior to the time and place of
the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section
are insufficient to satisfy the accrued charges, the sale and collection of
proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment
of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
A lien on a vehicle under this division shall be subject to prior recorded
liens, unless released by any existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)(4)
of this section.
      (3)   (a)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the
title issued by the state shall be notified by certified mail within the first
ten days of impoundment in accordance with state law.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of state law
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this paragraph is not
sent within ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (A)(3)(e)
of this section.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under state
law, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required under state
law, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (B)   Division (A) shall not apply to the following contents of a motor
vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner’s designated
agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the date the
vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person’s
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of State Police for disposition as provided by
KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B)(5), any contents exempted under
divisions (B)(3), (4), (6) and (7) that are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or
otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents
exempted under divisions (B)(1), (2), (8) and (9) of this section that are not
claimed by the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was
towed shall not be sold, but shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the
storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
   (E)   This section shall not apply when a local government causes a vehicle
to be towed pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640, or if state government causes a
vehicle to be towed.
(KRS 376.275(2) through (5))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police finds that falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking
of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she
finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the
weather conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary
that the parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the
prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him or her, but not
less than one hour after the announcement. After the effective time of the
prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if snow, sleet, or freezing rain
occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police under the authority of this section
shall remain in effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
   (B)   Each snow emergency parking regulation announcement by the Chief of
Police shall be made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. by means of
broadcasts or telecasts from not less than two radio or television stations
with a normal operating range covering the city, and, if possible, also be made
through newspapers of general circulation. Each announcement shall state the
time these snow emergency parking regulations become effective.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made a record of the
date and time when the announcement of a snow emergency parking regulation is
first made to the public, and the date, time, and conditions of any
announcements made to the public of the termination of each snow emergency
parking regulations, either in part or in whole, in accordance with §
72.36.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find that some or all of the
conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist,
he or she is authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or
in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
   (B)   If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police. On the street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, the
Chief of Police shall post special signs to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
more than $100.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
72.01(B),
72.02, or
72.03 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than $1 nor more than $25.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person, except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the Chief of Police and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of
any kind to go on any roadway, except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle, shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not more than $50.
CHAPTER 74: TRUCKS, TRAILERS, AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Application of traffic code to trucks
   
74.03   Trucks not to haul trailers
   
74.04   Length
   
74.05   Gross weight
   
74.06   Height
   
74.07   Width
   
74.08   Truck capacity to be shown on side
   
74.09   Speed limits
   
74.10   Brakes; brake lights
   
74.11   Clearance lights
   
74.12   Reduced load and speed limit
   
74.13   Mirrors
   
74.14   Route
   
74.15   Passenger carriers; contract carriers
   
74.16   Drive-a-way transportation
   
74.17   Explosives
   
74.18   Livestock trucks
   
74.19   Special permits
   
74.20   Exemptions
   
74.21   Enforcement
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR TRUCK. Any motor-propelled vehicle designed for carrying freight or
merchandise. It shall not include any self-propelled vehicles designed
primarily for passenger transportation, but equipped with frames, racks, or
bodies having a load capacity not exceeding 1,000 pounds.
   SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle designed to be attached to, and having its front end
supported by, a motor truck or truck tractor, and intended for the carrying of
freight or merchandise and with a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
   STREETS AND PASSWAYS. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard,
bridge, viaduct, or trestle, and the approaches thereto, within the limits of
the city.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor truck or truck tractor,
but supported wholly upon its own wheels, and intended for the carriage of
freight or merchandise and with a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor-propelled vehicle designed to draw and to support
the front end of a semi-trailer. The semi-trailer and the TRUCK TRACTOR shall
be considered to be one unit.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see KRS 189.010
§ 74.02 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC CODE TO TRUCKS.
   All ordinances of the city generally regulating the operation of motor
vehicles shall apply to the operation of motor trucks, freight motor trucks,
and semi-trailers, and those regulations are not affected by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942)
§ 74.03 TRUCKS NOT TO HAUL TRAILERS.
   No motor truck shall, at any time, haul or have attached thereto a trailer
upon any part of the streets and public ways of the city, and by the word
TRAILER is meant "another vehicle connected to the truck in such manner as to
keep them uniformly spaced." This section shall not apply to the operation of
semi-trailers as defined in §
74.01, and provided that a disabled vehicle being towed shall not be deemed to
be a trailer.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 LENGTH.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street or public way in the city any of
the following trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or vehicles:
      (1)   Any motor truck, except a truck tractor, which exceeds 26 and one-
half feet in length, including any part of the body or load; or
      (2)   Any truck tractor which exceeds 30 feet in length, including any
part of the body or load.
(KRS 189.221)
   (B)   The city, as authorized by KRS 189.280(3), may, by ordinance, increase
the length regulations set forth in this section, but such an increase shall be
subject to the limits set forth in KRS 189.221 and 189.222(1).
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 GROSS WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street or public way in the city any of
the following trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or vehicles:
      (1)   Any truck, truck tractor, or truck and trailer unit which exceeds
36,000 pounds gross weight, including the load; or
      (2)   Any truck, truck tractor, or tractor trailer unit which exceeds a
gross weight equal to the sum of 600 pounds per inch of the combined width of
the tires upon which the vehicle may be propelled, but in no event more than
36,000 pounds.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any truck
hauling building materials to a road construction project on a street or public
way in the city rated less than the maximum weight provided above may haul up
to 80,000 pounds gross weight, including the load, without a permit.
      (2)   This privilege shall extend only to travel between the materials'
manufacturing site and the road construction project and shall be automatically
rescinded upon completion of the project.
(KRS 189.221)
   (C)   The city, as authorized by KRS 189.280(3), may, by ordinance, increase
the weight regulations set forth in this section, but such an increase shall be
subject to the limits set forth in KRS 189.221 and 189.222(1).
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 HEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street or public way in the city any of
the following trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or vehicles: any motor truck,
semi-trailer, trailer, mobile home, or vehicle which exceeds 11 and one-half
feet in height, including any part of the body or load.
(KRS 189.221)
   (B)   The city, as authorized by KRS 189.280(3), may, by ordinance, increase
the height regulations set forth in this section, but such an increase shall be
subject to the limits set forth in KRS 189.221 and 189.222(1).
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 WIDTH.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street or public way in the city any of
the following trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or vehicles: any motor truck,
semi-trailer, trailer, mobile home, or vehicle which exceeds 96 inches in
width, including any part of the body or load.
(KRS 189.221)
   (B)   The city, as authorized by KRS 189.280(3), may, by ordinance, increase
the width regulations set forth in this section, but such an increase shall be
subject to the limits set forth in KRS 189.221 and 189.222(1).
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 TRUCK CAPACITY TO BE SHOWN ON SIDE.
   Every motor vehicle licensed under KRS 186.050(3), in addition to displaying
all plates issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer, shall have prominently painted
on each side thereof in letters and numerals not less than three inches in
height, in a color of sharp contrast to the color of their background, the
gross maximum weight for which the motor vehicle was registered, and the
registration certificate thereof shall be kept in the truck or vehicle at all
times, and shall be available for inspection.
(Ord. 1-7-47-1, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate upon any street or public way of the city any motor
truck or truck tractor having a gross weight, including load, exceeding 5,000
pounds, at any rate of speed in excess of 20 mph, and in the case of any such
vehicle, the gross weight of which, including load, shall be 5,000 pounds or
less, at a rate in excess of 25 mph.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 BRAKES; BRAKE LIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any semi-trailer, semi-trailer combination,
truck trailer combination, or truck semi-trailer combination on any street in
the city unless it is equipped with efficient brakes that may be operated by
the operator of the truck or tractor to which the semi-trailer or semi-trailer
trailer is attached.
(KRS 189.090(4))
   (B)   No person shall operate upon any street or public way of the city any
motor truck or truck tractor unless it shall be equipped with a yellow or red
light which shall automatically indicate the application of brakes and be
visible from the rear, at a distance of not less than 200 feet.
(KRS 189.050(3))
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.11 CLEARANCE LIGHTS.
   No person shall operate upon the streets or any public way of the city a
motor truck or truck tractor having a width of any part in excess of 84 inches,
unless it carries at least two clearance lights to indicate the outside left
limit of the motor truck or truck tractor, one light colored white or green, to
be attached to and visible from the front of the motor truck or truck tractor
and one light colored red to be attached to and visible from the rear thereof,
and in either case the clearance lights shall be of such power as to be visible
at a distance of not less than 500 feet.
(KRS 189.050(4)) (Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.12 REDUCED LOAD AND SPEED LIMIT.
   Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the route load and
speed limits herein fixed shall conform to regulations and notices issued by
the State Highway Department or the County Court with respect to the operation
of vehicles under extraordinary and unusual circumstances, published in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942)
§ 74.13 MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
operator's view to the rear, and every commercial motor vehicle of more than
one-half ton capacity, shall be equipped with a mirror so located and adjusted
as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least
200 feet to the rear of the vehicle. Each day of operation without this
equipment shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 189.130) (Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.14 ROUTE.
   All motor trucks passing through the city shall travel upon those streets
designated as part of the state or federal highway system.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.15 PASSENGER CARRIERS; CONTRACT CARRIERS.
   (A)   No motor truck shall be operated for the carriage of passengers for
hire without a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the state
in effect at the time of operation.
   (B)   No contract carrier shall operate a motor vehicle as such without a
permit issued for its operation by the state.
   (C)   No operator of a motor vehicle for hire shall permit any vehicle to be
operated upon the streets of the city unless the driver or chauffeur thereof
possesses a certificate from the state showing that the driver or chauffeur has
met its requirements.
   (D)   No motor vehicle shall be operated by any common carrier or contract
carrier upon the streets or public ways of the city unless the same shall bear
distinguishing plate or plates prescribed by the state authorizing it to be
operated under a certificate or permit.
   (E)   No common carrier, contract carrier, casual carrier, or carrier of
passengers for hire shall operate a motor truck within the city unless the same
shall have plainly marked thereon the name and office address of the owner, the
number of the vehicle corresponding to the number on the distinguishing plates
as should be affixed to the vehicle, and the rated capacity of the vehicle. It
shall also have the place of its starting terminal, and the name of the
chauffeur in charge posted conspicuously in the cab of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.16 DRIVE-A-WAY TRANSPORTATION.
   No saddle mount, tow bar, or other mechanical combination for the
transportation of vehicles shall be operated upon the streets or public ways of
the city without a drive-a-way in transit license issued by the state.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.17 EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosives, as cargo or
part of a cargo, upon a highway shall cause the vehicle to be marked or
placarded on each side and rear with the word "explosives" in letters not less
than eight inches high, or display on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not
less than 24 inches square, marked with the letters "danger" in white letters,
six inches high, and the vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(KRS 189.160) (Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.18 LIVESTOCK TRUCKS.
   The owners of all trucks hauling livestock within the city are required to
have painted on both sides and rear thereof the name and place of business of
the owner or owners thereof, in letters of colors contrasting with the color of
the body of the truck, and not less than five inches high.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.19 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Special permits issued by the State Highway Department shall be respected by
all police officers and peace officers of the city.
(Ord. 1-7-47-1, passed 1-7-1947)
§ 74.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
74.01 through
74.12 shall not apply to trucks, truck tractors, or trailers owned or operated
by any agency of the United States, the state, or any county or municipal
corporations of the state. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
any motor truck, truck tractor, or trailer which shall be licensed by any
municipal corporation of the state of the first, second, third, or fourth
class, within ten miles of the city; nor by any municipal corporation of the
fifth or sixth class, within five miles of the city, bearing the registration
plate or plates issued as evidence of the license, provided the vehicles
conform to the maximum limits with respect to weight, height, width, and length
provided by this chapter; and provided further that the provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to vehicles operated under special permit issued by the
governing authority of the State Highway Department.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942)
§ 74.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of every peace officer to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, and to make arrests for any violation or violations thereof, and
for violations of any other ordinances relating to motor vehicles without
warrant, if the offense be committed in his or her presence, and with warrant
or summons if he or she does not observe the commission of the offense. When in
pursuit of an offender for any offense committed within his or her
jurisdiction, any officer may follow and effect an arrest beyond the limits of
his or her jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1942)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to
a fine of not more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
74.04,
74.06,
74.07,
74.10, or
74.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
   (C)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in §
74.05 shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.990(2)(a).
   (D)   Whoever violates the speed limit provisions of §
74.09 shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.394.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
74.13 or
74.17 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $100.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for similar state offenses, see KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Load limits
   
III.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph over the
portion of the streets set out below:
 
Street          Location                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
                Between its intersection with Robinson
Clark Street    Street and its intersection with North     -        1-7-1947
                Railroad Street
                Between its intersection with Robinson
Main Street     Street and its intersection with Sebree    -        1-7-1947
                Avenue
Railroad Street Between its intersection with Clark Street -        1-7-1947
                and its intersection with Farren Avenue
                Between its intersection with Rutter
Robinson Street Avenue and its intersection with Farren    -        1-7-1947
                Avenue
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the speed limit set forth in this schedule shall be
subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle in excess of 36,000 pounds gross weight shall be operated
on the portions of the streets set out below. Appropriate signs giving notice
of the load limits on those portions of the streets shall be erected and
maintained:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Clark Street     East of its intersection with Robinson   -        1-7-1947
                 Street
Farren Avenue    East of its intersection with South      -        1-7-1947
                 Railroad Street
                 East of its intersection with South
Moss Avenue      Railroad Street, and between its         -        1-7-1947
                 intersection with West Side Avenue and
                 its intersection with Sebree Avenue
Oakwood Avenue   South of its intersection with Main      -        1-7-1947
                 Street
Robinson Street  South of its intersection with Main      -        1-7-1947
                 Street
Sebree Avenue    South of its intersection with West Main -        1-7-1947
                 Street
West Side Avenue South of its intersection with West Main -        1-7-1947
                 Street
Wilson Avenue    East of its intersection with South      -        1-7-1947
                 Railroad Street
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in this schedule
shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.990(2)(a).
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   All vehicles approaching an intersection of Route U.S. 41 or KY 112 shall be
brought to a full stop ten feet from the intersection of the street being
traveled by the vehicle and the Route.
(Ord. 1-7-47-2, passed 1-7-1947) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Diagonal parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations:
 
Street                Side Location                       Ord. No. Date Passed
                           Between its intersection with
North Railroad Street –  Main Street and its            -        1-7-1947
                           intersection with Clark Street
                           Between the intersection with
South Railroad Street West West Main Street and the       -        1-7-1947
                           intersection with South
                           Railroad Street
                           Between its intersection with
West Main Street      –  Railroad Street and the        -        1-7-1947
                           railroad crossing
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Vehicles shall be parked diagonally to the curbing in the following
locations:
 
Street      Location                                       Ord. No. Date Passed
            On the north side between its intersection
Main Street with Railroad Street and its intersection with -        1-7-1947
            Robinson Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE/NUISANCE CODE
         
93.   FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
         
94.   LITTERING
         
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Livestock, fowl, and poultry prohibited
   
90.08   Pets must be kept within an enclosure or on a leash
   
90.09   Limits on animals kept at one residence
Dogs
   
90.15   Dogs running at large
   
90.16   Noise disturbance
   
90.17   Dangerous dog license fees
Wild Animals
   
90.25   Wild or dangerous animals prohibited
   
90.26   Exceptions
   
90.27   Special permits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON.
      (1)   To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner, or his or
her agent.
      (2)   The abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights
and claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   CAT (DOMESTICATED). Any member of the feline family, male or female.
   DOG (DOMESTICATED). Any member of the canine family, male or female.
   FOWL. Ducks, geese, and the like.
   KENNELS. Any licensed establishment that meets the guidelines of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes and the guidelines set forth herein by the City
Council.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal other than domesticated species.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
   PEN OR ENCLOSURE. An enclosure or pen used for the keeping of domesticated
animals within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   All sides must be embedded into the ground a minimum of one foot or
there must be a bottom panel attached to the sides.
      (2)   An ENCLOSURE must have a top panel that attaches to the sides.
      (3)   All ENCLOSURES must be not less than eight feet tall and not less
than a minimum of 100 square feet per dog for large dogs; however, an ENCLOSURE
for a small dog may be 50 square feet. A large dog shall be any dog 50 pounds
or over. A small dog shall be any dog under 50 pounds.
      (4)   Regardless of dog size, all enclosures must be well ventilated and
kept in a sanitary manner at all times.
   POULTRY. Chickens, turkeys, and the like.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited
to, being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is
caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing,
tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or health care, or
by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society, dog pound, or
animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian, as provided herein shall relieve the
licensed veterinarian and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any
further liability for disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 LIVESTOCK, FOWL, AND POULTRY PROHIBITED.
   No livestock, fowl, or poultry may be kept within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PETS MUST BE KEPT WITHIN AN ENCLOSURE OR ON A LEASH.
   (A)   Generally. All canine and feline pets must be kept inside a locked pen
or enclosure at all times when outside the house in which they reside, with the
following exceptions.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   When an animal is out of its respective enclosure, or while going
to and from its enclosure, it must be on a leash.
      (2)   Residents of the city may still walk their domesticated animals at
any time of the day or night, provided that they are attached to a leash.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 LIMITS ON ANIMALS KEPT AT ONE RESIDENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the city to have located at any one
residence, outside, more than three domesticated animals of any species. There
shall be an eight-week grace period for dispersion of litters.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either
licensed or unlicensed, to allow that dog to be at large and not restrained by
a leash or confined in an enclosure.
   (B)   Any dog found at large or not restrained by a leash or confined in an
enclosure shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by any officer authorized
to so seize or impound dogs as provided in KRS Ch. 258. Any dog so seized or
impounded shall be disposed of as provided in KRS Ch. 258.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every police officer to obtain the name of the
owner or keeper of any dog seen running at large, if this is possible, and to
obtain a summons or warrant for the owner's or keeper's appearance in the
appropriate court.
(Ord. passed 5-29-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or
she occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 DANGEROUS DOG LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Any person owning or allowing to remain within the city a canine
deemed to be a possible threat to the safety of the citizens of the city in the
event of an escape from its enclosure shall be required to pay a dangerous dog
license fee of $150 per fiscal calendar year (July 1 through June 30) per dog.
Records of all dangerous dog licenses issued shall be kept on file with the
City Police Department and the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   (B)   Any person(s) purchasing a dangerous dog license shall maintain all
legal liabilities for any personal or financial loss sustained by any person
that comes into contact with the dangerous dog if it should escape from its
enclosure.
   (C)   Absolutely no liability shall fall onto the city by the owner
purchasing a dangerous dog license.
   (D)   Dangerous dog licenses shall be issued on a case-by-case basis as
needed. The Chief of Police or City Clerk-Treasurer's office may issue
licenses.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007)
WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.25 WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any poisonous
reptile, any vicious, or dangerous, or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any
vicious or dangerous domesticated animal, or any other animal or reptile of
wild, vicious, or dangerous propensities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes, including chimpanzees (pan); gibbons (hylobates); gorilla
(gorilla); orangutans (pongo); and siamangs (symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (papoi, mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (crocodilia), 30 inches in length or more;
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (9)   Coyotes (canis latrans);
      (10)   Deer (cervidae); including all members of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope, and moose;
      (11)   Elephants (elephas and loxodonta);
      (12)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (panthera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (lynx);
      (19)   Foxes (vulpes);
      (20)   Raccoons (procyon lotor);
      (21)   Monkeys, old world (cercopithecidae);
      (22)   Ostriches (struthio);
      (23)   Piranha fish (characidae);
      (24)   Pumas (felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain lions, and
panthers;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses (rhinocero tidae);
      (26)   Sharks (class chondrichthyes);
      (27)   Snow leopards (panthera uncia);
      (28)   Swine (suidae);
      (29)   Tigers (panthera tigris); and
      (30)   Wolves (canis lupus).
(Ord. passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
90.25 shall not apply to licensed pet shops, menageries, zoological gardens,
and circuses, if:
   (A)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of
the city;
   (B)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
   (C)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent their
escape; and/or
   (D)   No person lives or resides within 100 feet of the quarters in which
the animals are kept.
(Ord. passed - -1982)
§ 90.27 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The keeping of animals, birds, or fowl otherwise prohibited by this
subchapter may be permitted by applying for a special permit from the City
Council. The permits may be issued to permit circus performances or other
public exhibition or entertainment events. Any person, organization, group, or
business granted a special permit will be required to comply with the
conditions of §
90.26.
(Ord. passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not more than $100 for each offense. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   After given due notice by the Chief of Police or any of his or her
subordinates to correct any violation of §§
90.07 through
90.09 as relating to animals kept and residing within the city, any and all
person(s) in violation will be subject to having County Humane Society
employees upon their property, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, to
remove any animal and/or situation found to be in violation.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.07 through
90.09 may be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined an amount not exceeding $500 and/or be imprisoned in the County Detention
Center for a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (2)   Animals that have escaped their enclosures that are not deemed to
be a threat to public safety may be reclaimed by the owner; however, any animal
deemed to be a threat to public safety that escapes its enclosure may be
reclaimed, but shall not be allowed to be returned to the city. Any animal that
causes harm to a human being after escaping from its enclosure shall be
destroyed and the owner (if applicable) shall be charged with harboring a
vicious animal and lodged in the County Detention Center.
      (3)   Once an animal's owner has been charged with a misdemeanor and
lodged in jail, any and all penalties shall be handed down by County District
Court.
      (4)   Any animal whose owner cannot be located in a reasonable time that
also poses a threat to the safety of human beings that cannot be captured by
County Humane Society shall be dealt with by any means necessary, including,
but not limited to, being shot by any police officer or Humane Society Officer.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $500 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed - -1982; Ord. 2007-8, passed 7-17-2007)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Railroad crossing grade change
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.17   Effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 RAILROAD CROSSING GRADE CHANGE.
   Before a railroad makes any change in grade at any of the street crossings
in the city, there first shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer an
application by the railroad setting out the change in grade of the street
crossings and the City Council must approve the change in grade before
construction commences by the railroad.
(Ord. passed 6-28-1988)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 2010-8, passed 3-9-2010)
CHAPTER 92: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE/NUISANCE CODE
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Intent
   
92.04   Workmanship
   
92.05   Definitions
   
92.06   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.07   Nuisances described and prohibited
   
92.08   Disturbing and unnecessary noises
   
92.09   Exceptions
   
92.10   Vehicles
   
92.11   Rubbish
   
92.12   Exterior structures
   
92.13   Abatement procedure
   
92.14   Nuisances created by others
   
92.15   Suspension of license
   
92.16   Burning
   
92.17   Junk yards to have suitable screens
   
92.18   Prohibitions
   
92.19   Remedies
   
92.20   Enforcement officer
   
92.21   Authority
   
92.22   Declaration of nuisance
   
92.23   Notice of violation
   
92.24   Hearing
   
92.25   Yard sales
   
92.26   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Property Maintenance/Nuisance Code of the
City of Earlington.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
by establishing, pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839, what constitutes a
nuisance on residential and non-residential properties, with and without
structures, and prohibiting public nuisances that substantially annoy, injure,
or endanger the public, or unlawfully or substantially interfere with the use
and enjoyment of private or public property, and fixing the responsibilities of
owners, operators, and occupants of all residential and non-residential
structures and premises. Enforcement shall be on a complaint driven basis.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.03 INTENT.
   This chapter shall be construed liberally and justly to insure public
health, safety, and welfare insofar as the public is affected by the continued
use and maintenance of structures and premises in violation of this chapter.
However, the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other applicable ordinances or regulations. The provisions of
KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 shall apply to the processes and procedures for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.04 WORKMANSHIP.
   All repairs, maintenance, alterations, or installations that are required
for compliance with this chapter shall be executed and installed in a
workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for, and associated
with, clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed on, below, or above ground, for the
support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words "or
any part thereof."
   CITY. The City of Earlington, Hopkins County, Kentucky, including any
departments, divisions, boards, or agencies thereof.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The Earlington Code Enforcement Board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. As defined in KRS 65.8801 et seq. and any employee
of the city charged with the enforcement of this chapter as a code enforcement/
citation officer, exclusive of clerical and administrative staff, as well as
the City Administrative Officer, police, and fire safety officers.
   DWELLING. Any part of any BUILDING or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation, or for sleeping by any person.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Unable to move under its own power due to defective or
missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Any public nuisance as defined herein.
   NUISANCE CODE. This chapter adopted by the city pursuant to KRS 65.8840.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation, or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the DWELLING.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.06 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.07 NUISANCES DESCRIBED AND PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   No person shall act, fail to act, behave, erect, contrive, cause,
continue, maintain in any manner, or permit to exist any public nuisance within
the city. Repeated violation of the terms of this chapter shall constitute a
public nuisance;
   (B)   Any act, thing, occupation, condition, use of property, non-use of
property, or misuse of property that continues for a length of time so as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life, peaceful
uninterrupted existence, or in the use of their property;
      (3)   Offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, including but not limited to sidewalks;
   (C)   To allow any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or
its appurtenances to be an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, standing pools of water or liquid,
basements, excavations, retaining walls, and unsafe fences, accessible to
children or other persons, on the premises. No person shall abandon or leave
unattended in any place accessible to children any refrigerator, freezer ice
chest, ice box, or similar airtight box or container, which has a locking
device inoperable from within, without first unhinging and removing the door or
lid thereof or detaching the locking device from the door or lid. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the normal use of any refrigerator,
ice box, freezer, or similar appliance for the storage of food in any home or
buildings appurtenant thereto;
   (D)   For any premises to have unsanitary, defective, or insufficient
sewerage or plumbing facilities;
   (E)   To keep or maintain any premises designated by a Code Enforcement
Officer as unsafe or unfit for human habitation;
   (F)   For any premises to present an imminent fire hazard, be in imminent
danger of collapse, or to be unsafe or unsecure so as to endanger life, limb,
or property;
   (G)   For any premises to lack electrical service, plumbing, heating, and/or
other equipment required by this chapter, state statute, or any other ordinance
of the city. If the utility providing natural gas service to a furnace, water
heater, or other equipment determines that the equipment is defective, the
utility shall cite or "red tag" the defective equipment and notify the Code
Enforcement Officer of such citation. Any equipment so cited by a utility
company as defective will be deemed a public nuisance;
   (H)   For any structure or building to be in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, or be a product of faulty construction;
   (I)   For any structure or building to be vacant or abandoned and open or
accessible to vagrants or passersby, or damaged by fire so as not to provide
shelter;
   (J)   To allow on any premises or structure any stagnant water in which
mosquitos, flies, or other insects may breed or multiply. For stagnant water
that cannot be easily eliminated, a property owner may use mosquito dunks or
other environmentally safe larvacides to kill mosquitoes and other insects, and
evidence of the effective use of such products will constitute a defense to any
citation issued under this section;
   (K)   To allow any rubbish to remain on any premises;
   (L)   To allow any premises or structure to pollute any public well or
cistern, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, creamery, or
industrial wastes or other polluting substances;
   (M)   To allow any premises or structure within the city to emit or cause
any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors,
effluvia, or stenches repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons, or
that annoy, cause discomfort, or injure the health of any appreciable number of
persons within the county;
   (N)   Harboring or keeping any canine or hybrid canine outside in a
residential neighborhood which by loud and frequent or habitual barking,
howling, or yelping, shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to adjacent
residents in the neighborhood;
   (O)   The keeping of cattle, horses, chickens, and other barn type animals
shall be prohibited in any non-agricultural zoned area within the city;
   (P)   Emission of noxious odors or smoke into the surrounding atmosphere of
dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical occupation
of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible;
   (Q)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. The storage of
combustible or explosive material which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity; excepted therefrom is any oil or gas
approved for residential use and stored in an approved container;
   (R)   Any tree, stack of wood or trees, or other object standing in such a
condition that it will, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to, persons or
property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (S)   Any tree, stack of wood or tress, or other object standing in such a
condition that would not allow the city access to any easement or right-of-way;
   (T)   Any outdoor fire, except for that of candles, torches, grills, and
approved properly positioned and maintained fire pits, with a fuel load of
paper, firewood, charcoal, propane, or natural gas, and no more than 24 square
feet in area. Open burning of trees and all forms of vegetation for the purpose
of land clearing is prohibited. The burning of trash is also prohibited. Burn
permits from the Fire Department are not required for the approved type of
fires defined in this chapter;
   (U)   To allow any motor vehicle to be parked on an unpaved (concrete or
blacktop) surface in excess of 24 hours without city permission;
   (V)   The storage of motor vehicles in an inoperative condition, motor
vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts, or scrap metal within the
city limits, except on premises authorized by the city for those purposes;
   (W)   (1)   It shall be a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter to
keep, maintain, or own a dangerous building within the city. A dangerous
building is defined as any of the following:
         (a)   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its
base;
         (b)   A building, exclusive of the foundation, that shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration to its supporting members, or 50% or more damage or
deterioration to its non-supporting members, or to the enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
         (c)   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe to occupants or the public;
         (d)   A building damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to cause
the building to become dangerous to life, limb, or property of the occupants or
to the public;
         (e)   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed,
unsafe, unsanitary, or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities
essential to decent living that it is unfit for human habitation, or is likely
to cause sickness or disease, or injury to health, safety, or general welfare
of those living therein;
         (f)   A building having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
         (g)   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of
fire or panic, or having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of travel;
         (h)   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property; or
         (i)   A building for human habitation that is missing or has
nonfunctioning smoke detectors or similar detection devices in violation of the
Fire Code;
      (2)   Every person owning or having control of a building shall not allow
unsecure openings where a door, window, or other architectural feature should
be located;
   (X)    The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or other enclosure in
a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors; and
   (Y)   Nuisances defined herein.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.08 DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary
noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumerations shall not be deemed
to be exclusive.
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn on
any automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle on any street or public
place of the city, except as a danger warning signal; the creation by means of
any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (B)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The using, operating, or permitting
to be played, used, or operated any radio, stereo, television, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle, or chamber in which such machine or device is operated, and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine, or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation of this section.
   (C)   Loud speakers and amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure, unless the permit for such
amplification has been obtained from the Mayor or City Clerk.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds, and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Operation of equipment. The operating of any equipment or the
performing of any outside construction or repair work on buildings, structures,
roads, or projects within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. unless a permit for such construction or repair work between such hours
has been obtained from the Mayor or City Clerk.
   (G)   Exhausts. The discharging into the open air of the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom. Exhaust noise which is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet
from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (H)   Repairing, rebuilding, or testing of motor vehicles. The repairing,
rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet, and comfort of the residents in the area.
   (I)   Construction and repair on real estate/structures. The construction,
repair, or any other work on any real estate and/or structures located within
the city limits between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any
residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort
of the residents of the area.
   (J)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in any such manner as grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
   (K)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs
are displayed on such streets indicating that same is a school, hospital,
court, or church street.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities and uses shall be exempt from the noise regulations
set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals and warning devices;
   (B)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in times of emergency;
   (C)   Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work
necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity,
or work required to protect persons or property from imminent exposure to
danger;
   (D)   Noises resulting from the discharge of firearms during daylight hours;
   (E)   Sound made or controlled by the city;
   (F)   Sounds produced or emitted by burglar alarms and/or security system
alarms installed in homes and businesses; and
   (G)   Noises resulting from garbage/trash removal provided under contract
with the city, as long as the service provided is operating under the time
periods provided by separate contract.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.10 VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to allow junked or wrecked vehicles, machines, scrap,
salvage materials, mobile or manufactured homes to exist on real property in
the city not within a duly licensed salvage yard pursuant to KRS 177.910
through 177.950.
   (A)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept, or
stored on any occupied or unoccupied premises, and no vehicle shall at any time
be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted
inside an approved spray booth. Excepted therefrom is any small repair and spot
painting of an area of the vehicle not in excess of 16 square feet.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop
thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   One or more junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or
other similar scrap or salvage materials, excluding non-operative farm
equipment; or
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS
227.550, that are junked, wrecked, or non-operative and are not inhabited.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Junked, wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles,
machines, or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business
premises of a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the
provisions of KRS 190.010(8);
         (b)   Junked, wrecked, or non-operative motor vehicles, including
parts cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether
as a hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored
out of ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or
other means;
         (c)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier; and/or
         (d)   A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
      (2)   The city may take action to abate the nuisances referenced in this
section by giving notice to the property owner of the nuisance pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this code. The city itself may abate or remove a
nuisance referenced under this section if the property owner fails to do so
after notice is given regarding the nuisance. The removal, transportation, and
storage shall be the sole financial responsibility of the owner of the vehicle
or land owner who allows the violation to occur on his or her lot or parcel of
ground.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies prescribed above or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien
and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owned.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.11 RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, person, or corporation
controlling or managing land in the city to permit a nuisance thereon through
the accumulation of rubbish or excessive growth of weeds, grass, and similar
items. Excessive growth means a height of nine inches or more.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien against said property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying such situation, and such labor
shall be calculated at an hourly rate of $75 per hour. The affidavit of the
City Clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
the regularity of the proceedings and shall be recorded in the office of the
County Clerk in the county where such city is located. Said lien shall be
notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest at
the rate of 6% per annum.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.12 EXTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks, and fences shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking, and chipping paint
shall be eliminated from any surface. All siding and masonry joints as well as
those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors, and
skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. All metal
surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and
corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and
coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed
from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are
exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   Roof. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and not have
defects that admit water or moisture. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portions of the
structure. Roof drains, gutters, and downspouts shall be maintained in good
repair and free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a
manner that creates a public nuisance.
   (C)   Stairways, decks, porches, and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch, and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.13 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer or other
responsible officer designated by the Mayor to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which there is kept or
maintained any nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within five days unless the nuisance
constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well-being of the community.
If such danger is present, the nuisance shall be abated within 24 hours of
notice. Notice shall be served upon persons by certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the person is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code
Enforcement Officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of
notice may be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation for two
consecutive days. A copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises affected by the notice and it shall be recorded in the office
of the County Clerk.
   (B)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days,
the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, or the city may employ independent
contractors to abate the nuisance. The person or persons employed to abate the
nuisance shall have the full right of access to the property with such
personnel, machinery, and equipment as are necessary to abate the nuisance. The
city shall keep a record of the costs incurred to abate the nuisance and said
costs shall be charged to and paid by the owner and/or occupant.
   (C)   Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien on the premises.
Nuisance abatement charges shall include labor, equipment usage, fuel and oil,
attorneys' fees, filing fees, publication costs, court costs, and all other
fees and charges whenever incurred by the city for the abatement of the
nuisance, enforcement of the lien, and foreclosure on the property. Whenever a
bill for charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered, the
City Clerk/Code Enforcement Officer may file with the County Clerk a statement
of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of the
premises, the expenses and costs incurred, the date the nuisance was abated,
and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the lien
claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address is known.
However, failure to record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the failure
of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for charges as provided in division (D) below. The lien shall bear
interest thereafter until paid at the legal rate of 6% percent per annum. The
lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except ad
valorem taxes due the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Hopkins County, and other
taxing districts or municipalities, and may be enforced by the filing of an
action to enforce such lien in the Hopkins Circuit Court.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall
be sold for nonpayment and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
nuisance abatement charges and attorneys’ fees after deducting costs. This
foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the city.
   (E)   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the
matter, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days
after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.14 NUISANCES CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.15 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the Council deems that there is an immediate threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the Council may by majority vote suspend the
license of any person conducting business upon the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the Council may remove the
suspension upon any terms as it may direct.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.16 BURNING.
   Burning of leaves or debris on city streets, sidewalks, drains, and/or
ditches is considered a nuisance. All burning must be in an open container or a
confined area. It is to be controlled at all times. Water must be present at
the burn site and all fires must be attended at all times by an adult 18 years
of age or older. This section shall not override fire bans by the Forestry
Department. Any leaves and debris not burned must be bagged and not piled
loosely on streets, sidewalks, ditches, or drains, or adjoining streets.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.17 JUNK YARDS TO HAVE SUITABLE SCREENS.
   Any person having a motor vehicle or machinery junk yard located within the
corporate limits of the city and along any right-of-way street therein shall be
screened from view of persons traveling along the right-of-way or street by
means of a fence, shrubs, trees, or other natural foliage. The person(s) acting
as owner of the motor vehicle and/or machinery junk yard shall be responsible
for the erection of the screen directed by this section.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.18 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following actions are prohibited and considered unlawful within the
city.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of real estate to permit any
structure to become unfit or unsafe for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or
to permit conditions to exist in the structure which are dangerous or injurious
to the health or safety of the occupants of neighboring structures, or other
residents of the neighborhood or city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real estate to permit a
public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, harass, or
otherwise impede an authorized agent or officer of the city when the agent or
officer is inspecting real estate, investigating possible violations, or
otherwise enforcing this chapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, no official, agent, or employee
of this city is authorized to enter any occupied structure without the consent
of the occupant or a judicially obtained search warrant showing probable cause
as to public health or safety hazards.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.19 REMEDIES.
   When any owner is found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter,
the city, in its discretion and without obligation, may elect to pursue any or
all remedies available in an effort to cure the problem, including declaring
the property a nuisance and, after notice and hearing as set forth herein,
proceeding to abate the nuisance; imposition of civil penalties; seeking
injunctive relief; or pursuing any other remedy available at law. The election
of one remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of any other.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.20 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The position of Enforcement Officer is created for the purpose of
administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter. By municipal order,
the Mayor, with the City Council approval, shall appoint one or more officers
or employees of the city to serve as the city's Enforcement Officer. The
Enforcement Officer shall report directly to the Mayor or the Mayor's designee.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.21 AUTHORITY.
   Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to enforce this chapter, which
authority shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Enter upon real estate for the purpose of inspection and enforcement
of this chapter;
   (B)   Apply for and obtain a search warrant, if necessary;
   (C)   Declare real estate and conditions thereon a nuisance;
   (D)   Issue notices of violations;
   (E)   Monitor real estate and declare conditions thereon a nuisance;
   (F)   Enter upon the real estate and to cause others to enter on the real
estate for the purpose of correcting a violation;
   (G)   File a notice of lien against the real estate;
   (H)   Cause the lien to be enforced; and
   (I)   Do all other things and take all other actions reasonably necessary to
carry out the intent and purpose of and to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.22 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any real estate which is found to be in violation of the provisions of this
chapter by an Enforcement Officer may be declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When any real estate is declared a public nuisance, notice of the violation
of this chapter shall be given as follows: one notice per year shall be mailed
to an owner at the last address shown on the property tax roll maintained by
the Property Valuation Administrator. Each owner shall have a duty to timely
notify city of the proper mailing address of the owner.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.24 HEARING.
   Any person or business entity noticed or cited for a violation of this
chapter shall be entitled to a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.25 YARD SALES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      YARD SALE. Items placed in a front yard, back yard, porch, or sidewalks
for the intent of selling.
   (B)   Certain conditions declared nuisance.
      (1)   Yard sales shall not be more than three consecutive days. All items
not sold shall be packed up and put away out of sight within 24 hours after the
sale is over.
      (2)   All signs must be taken down by the person conducting the sale
within 24 hours after the sale is over. No signs may be placed on any type of
utility poles at any time. Any violation of this provision shall constitute a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 92.26 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   The International Property Maintenance Code, as same may be amended
from time to time, is hereby incorporated herein by reference and is adopted
for all building construction in the city, including one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses and accessory structures.
   (B)   A copy of the International Property Maintenance Code, as amended,
shall be maintained by the City Clerk and shall be available to the public
during regular business hours.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense, or the cost to the
city to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each day's continued violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalty. Any owners who fail to comply with a final order of the
Code Enforcement Board shall, in addition to any other penalty prescribed
herein, be subject to a civil penalty of $50 per day until the nuisance is
abated by the owners or the city.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may also be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined an amount
not exceeding $500 and/or be imprisoned in the county detention center for a
period not exceeding 30 days.
   (D)   After being given due notice by the Code Enforcement Officer or any of
his or her subordinates to correct any violation of this chapter as relating to
nuisances and/or inoperative motor vehicles, any and all person(s) in violation
will be subject to having the city's employees upon their property to correct
any violation that is not corrected when directed to do so as outlined in this
chapter at the following rates:
      (1)   City vehicles and/or equipment: $250 per hour per vehicle; and
      (2)   City employees: $75 per hour per employee.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks”as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, COMMON FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lower a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending
out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public
display of fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
 
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in § 92.30(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715 (7) through (9)) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than 0.25 grain of explosive mixture; shells or cartridges, used as
ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal
or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for use by military
organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided the same are to
be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state fire marshal, the state fire marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Merchants to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
94.06   Posting notices
   
94.07   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit, in any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   (A)   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel,
cement, fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled, in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place.
   (B)   Any materials which fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or
deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place shall be removed immediately by the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 MERCHANTS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street, or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 POSTING NOTICES.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device
which is calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamp post,
public utility pole, or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building,
except as may be authorized by law.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100. Each day the
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances in Loch Mary Park
   
95.02   Swimming or bathing in Loch Mary Lake
   
95.03   Gasoline engines prohibited on Loch Mary Lake
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN LOCH MARY PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume alcoholic beverages,
or to use controlled substances or drugs, in the city park area of Loch Mary
Park. It shall also be unlawful for any person to take into the park area of
Loch Mary Park any alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, or drugs for the
purpose of same being used or consumed in the park area.
(Ord. 11-8-77-2, passed 11-8-1977) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 SWIMMING OR BATHING IN LOCH MARY LAKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use Loch Mary Lake for the purpose of
swimming or bathing.
(Ord. 11-8-77-2, passed 11-8-1977) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 GASOLINE ENGINES PROHIBITED ON LOCH MARY LAKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a boat propelled by a
gasoline engine or equipped with a gasoline engine on the waters of Loch Mary
Lake.
(Ord. passed 8-26-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
95.01 and
95.02 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $150 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
95.03 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $500.
(Ord. 11-8-77-2, passed 11-8-1977; Ord. passed 8-26-1986)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
         
111.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
         
112.   OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES (NET PROFITS)
         
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Provision for service of process
   
110.09   Exhibition of licenses and badges
   
110.10   City policy on soliciting
   
110.11   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.12   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.13   Prohibited solicitation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an ITINERANT MERCHANT.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging is the activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or by the president if a corporation. Applications should be made on forms
available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   All applications for peddler or solicitor licenses shall state, in
addition to statements required by division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   Two letters of recommendation from any person residing or doing
business in the city certifying the applicant's good moral character and
business responsibility; or, in lieu of the letters, other evidence which may
be used by the Clerk-Treasurer to satisfy his or her duties under §
110.04;
      (2)   If required by the Clerk-Treasurer, copies of all printed
advertising proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
and
      (3)   Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant
proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as the
representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to attachments required under division (C) above, a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause a set
of applicant's fingerprints to be taken and attached to the application. He or
she shall also cause a picture of the applicant to be taken and to be attached
to the application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause an
investigation of the applicant's business reputation and moral character to be
made.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the application unless the
investigation discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's
business would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals,
or general welfare. In particular, valid reasons for disapproval of an
application will be constituted by tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; and/or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to the person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 PROVISION FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   Requirements of successful applicant.
      (1)   Upon receipt of notice of approval of his or her application, the
applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer an instrument appointing the
Clerk-Treasurer as his or her true and lawful agent with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of process for and on behalf of applicant in
respect to any matter arising under this chapter.
      (2)   Forms for the required statement are available at the Clerk-
Treasurer's office. The form or instrument shall contain recitals to the effect
that the applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or process
may be made upon this agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as
valid as if personally served upon the applicant, according to the law of this
or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of the
acknowledgment.
   (B)   Duty of Clerk-Treasurer. Immediately upon service of any process upon
the Clerk-Treasurer under this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall send, by
registered mail, a copy of the process to the licensee at his or her last known
address.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 EXHIBITION OF LICENSES AND BADGES.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a badge to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The badge shall contain the words "Licensed
Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The badge shall be worn conspicuously by the licensee
during the time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
   (C)   Peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their license at the request of
any citizen.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.11 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   "NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.12 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.11 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.11 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not more than $100. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 111: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
111.01   Imposition of license fee
   
111.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
111.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
111.04   Due date; interest
   
111.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 111.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the 2000 calendar year, and thereafter on a calendar-year
basis.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 3-14-2000)
§ 111.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of those policies.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 3-14-2000)
§ 111.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of those policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which that company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders. However, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Worker's Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 3-14-2000)
§ 111.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax rate as defined in KRS
131.010(6).
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 3-14-2000)
§ 111.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance: casualty; automobile; inland marine; fire and allied perils; health;
and life.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 3-14-2000)
CHAPTER 112: OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES (NET PROFITS)
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Occupational license application required
   
112.03   Occupational license fee payment required
   
112.04   Apportionment
   
112.05   Employers to withhold
   
112.06   Returns required
   
112.07   Extensions
   
112.08   Payment of estimated fee quarterly
   
112.09   Refunds
   
112.10   Federal audit provisions
   
112.11   Administrative provisions
   
112.12   Information to remain confidential
   
112.13   Use of occupational license fee
   
112.14   Enforcement
   
112.15   Injunctive relief
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes, or receipts of the unit, group, or association inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Earlington, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a),
401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of the person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for the services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of the wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means that
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent's report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on 12-31-2006,
exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than amendments
that extend provisions in effect on 12-31-2006, that would otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in § 61 of the Internal Revenue Code
minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under § 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the State Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district, or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy
net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license taxes or fees.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city, means NET PROFIT as defined in this section.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city, means NET PROFIT as defined in this section, and
as apportioned under §
112.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business, or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the State Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license fee for the privilege of engaging in the activities within
the city.
      (1)   The occupational license fee shall be measured by 1.5% of:
         (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; and/or
         (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a
resident or nonresident business entity.
      (2)   Each person, association, corporation, or other business engaged in
any occupation, trade, profession, or other business activity in the city shall
pay a minimum license fee of $50.75, payable in advance, to the city for each
tax year. The minimum fee shall be a credit on the net profit license fee as
otherwise provided in this chapter only for the tax year which the minimum fee
covers and shall not be a credit for any subsequent year.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, corporation, or
other business to engage in any occupation, trade, profession, or other
activity in the city without first having applied for and paid the minimum
license fee herein required. If the minimum license fee is not paid prior to
engaging in any business activity, a penalty of $20 per month, or fraction
thereof, shall be imposed for the period during which any unlawful business or
activity occurred.
   (B)   Exceptions. The occupational license fee imposed in this section shall
not apply to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank; trust company; combined bank and trust company; combined
trust, banking, and title insurance company organized and doing business in
this state; and any savings and loan association, whether state or federally
chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the State National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly
nonpublic service who are also engaged in public service activity are required
to pay a license fee on their net profits derived from the nonpublic service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Ch. 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion of their
gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the state;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 through 154.20-284 to the extent any
profits, earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual
investor;
      (8)   Any company providing multi-channel video programming services or
communications services as defined in KRS 136.602. If only a portion of an
entity's business is providing multi-channel video programming services or
communications services, including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multi-channel video programming services or
communications services, this exclusion applies only to that portion of the
business that provides multi-channel video programming services or
communications services, including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multi-channel video programming services or
communications services; and/or
      (9)   Net income received from the leasing or rental of less than three
residential rental units per year.
   (C)   Minimum fees.
      (1)   The Mayor and City Council hereby find that the following
occupations are of such a nature as to require special regulation and
supervision, and, therefore, the following minimum license fees are imposed on
every person engaged in the business, occupation, calling, or profession, or
using, holding, or exhibiting articles named in this section who shall pay in
advance to the city for each calendar year or fiscal year, or fraction thereof,
in accordance with the yearly basis the licensee uses in making a return under
the terms of this chapter, the license fee or fees herein set forth, which
payment shall be a credit on the license fee as otherwise provided in this
chapter; however, where minimum fees are set forth in the following table for
periods less than one year, the same shall be considered the minimum fee due
for the period as set forth in the table and shall be paid in advance of
engaging in the activity.
      (2)   In the event that a licensee engages in more than one type of
activity in one business entity, the highest minimum license fee shall apply.
Under column head "Date Due" in the following table, the words BEFORE SHOWING
mean that the license fee per showing is due prior to the date of each showing.
 
Subject Fee                             Minimum Fee Date Due
Dance halls (any place of business held
open to the general public where        $100        Yearly
patrons are permitted to dance)
Entertainment exhibitions, ride
concessions, carnivals, or circuses,    $25         Before showing or operation
regardless of sponsorship, per day
Fortune telling                         $500        Yearly
Parades, commercial (this shall not
include Christmas parades and the like, $100        Yearly
charitable or patriotic demonstrations,
or school demonstrations
Pawnbrokers                             $100        Yearly
Auction houses                          $100        Yearly
 
   (D)   Transient-itinerant merchants or businesses.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         TEMPORARILY. Not of a permanent nature or stay or involving regular or
routine visits to the city.
         TRANSIENT-ITINERANT MERCHANT OR BUSINESS. Includes any person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity not specifically provided for in this
chapter which passes through the city temporarily for the purpose of conducting
a trade, occupation, or profession in general for gain or profit which involves
buying, selling, or exchanging of goods or services.
      (2)   Scope.
         (a)   Those subject to this chapter include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Photographers;
            2.   Appliance salespersons;
            3.   Household furnishings salespersons;
            4.   Magazine salespersons;
            5.   Novelties and confections salespersons;
            6.   Home improvements salespersons:
               a.   Storm windows;
               b.   Insulation;
               c.   Painters;
               d.   Roofers; and
               e.   Awnings.
            7.   Vendors of service or merchandise;
            8.   Hawkers; and
            9.   Solicitors.
         (b)   All of the above persons are included unless specifically
employed by local wholesale or retail merchants.
      (3)   Exception. Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity
who regularly services, delivers, buys, or sells goods and services to retail,
wholesale, or other permanent businesses in the city shall not constitute a
transient-itinerant business, but rather shall be subject to the provisions and
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any transient-itinerant
business or representative thereof to engage in any activity in the city
without the representatives thereof having first obtained a permit to do so as
provided herein and having otherwise complied with the terms and provisions of
this section.
      (5)   Issuance of permit; duration and identification.
         (a)   Each and every representative of a transient-itinerant business
desiring to engage in business within the city shall first make an application
in writing to the Finance Director through the finance office provided by the
city, before the applicant shall be authorized to do business. The application
shall state the name, permanent address, and telephone number of the business;
entity type and federal identification number of the business; the name,
address, telephone number, social security number, and other personal data of
the business representative to be engaging in activity in the city; and the
type or nature of the goods or services to be provided.
         (b)   The Finance Director, upon receipt of a completed application
and payment of the license fee, shall issue a permit to the representative of
the business. The permittee shall have his or her permit in his or her
immediate possession at all times when engaging in business in the city, and
shall display it upon demand to an official of the city.
      (6)   Fees. Those subject to this division (D) shall pay to the city a
fee of $100 prior to the issuance of a permit and prior to engaging in business
in the city. The fee shall be payable in advance and valid for the remainder of
the tax year (or fraction thereof), which tax year is to be for the period
commencing on April 1, and ending on the last day of March of each year.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008; Ord. 2010-5, passed 3-9-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profits shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profits by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profits by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing the income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license fee shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license fee shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is "passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license fee imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
"passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license fee for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license fee shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license fee
calculated under §
112.03. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fees under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city the fees
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any taxpayer whose gross
payroll exceeds $150,000 per three-month quarter shall file returns on a
monthly basis and shall pay to the city the tax liability due hereunder on a
monthly basis for receipt on or before the fifteenth day of each month, rather
than on a quarterly basis.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this chapter. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fees under this chapter
shall annually, on or before February 28 of each year, complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license fee withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license fee deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the fees required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any fee required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution nor withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the fee becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless the person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the fee imposed by this chapter at the time that the fees
imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the city subject to the fee imposed under §
112.03 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the fee levied under this chapter from the employee,
the employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
filed by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be filed by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license fee return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license fee governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the fees owed by the business entity pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid fees payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license fee return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license fee, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its fee.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the fee
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the fee
was due until the return is actually filed and the fee paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.08 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED FEE QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to
this chapter shall make quarterly estimated fee payments on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and twelfth month of each taxable
year if the fees due for the taxable year exceeds $5,000.
   (B)   The quarterly estimated fee payments required under division (A) above
shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent of the current taxable year fee
liability;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the preceding full year taxable year fee
liability; or
      (3)   Twenty-five percent of the average fee liability for the three
preceding full taxable years' fee liabilities if the fee liability for any of
the three preceding full taxable years exceeded $20,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (B) above by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) above from the
earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (B) above; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity's first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity's fee liability exceeds
$5,000.
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated fees may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.09 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of the fees due pursuant to this
chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license fee on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits fees upon business
levied pursuant to this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to any person
or business entity to the extent of overpayment only upon a written application
for refund or credit to the city within two years from the date that
overpayment was made.
   (D)   In the case where the fee computed under the provisions of this
chapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated
fee for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is requested,
shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (E)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated fee in excess of
the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the same
taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated fee determined to
be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable year or for any
deficiency or nonpayment of fees for any previous taxable year. No refund shall
be made of any estimated fee paid unless a complete return is filed as required
by this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.10 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of fee computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional fee
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional fees may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional fees may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional fees relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional fee may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional fee within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.11 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the fee levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any fee collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
112.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly; and
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division and division (A) above, a return
filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be
considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of fees collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.12 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district's tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the State Commissioner of
Revenue, or his or her duly authorized agent, all the information and rights to
inspect any of the books and records of the city if the State Commissioner of
Revenue grants to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information form the
files and records of the State Department of Revenue and maintains the
privileged character of the information so furnished. Provided, further, that
the city may publish statistics based on the information in such a manner as
not to reveal data respecting net profits or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.13 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   All money derived from the license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the City General Fund.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Finance Director is hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and he or she is hereby empowered
to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations relating to
any matter or thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, provisions for the
reexamination and correction of returns as to which an overpayment or
underpayment is claimed or found to have been made; and the rules and
regulations promulgated by him or her shall be binding upon the licensee and
the employers. Provided, however, all the rules, regulations and decisions
shall be subject to the consent and approval of the City Administrative
Officer.
   (B)   Audit. The Finance Director, or any agent or employee designated in
writing by him or her, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and
records of any employer or supposed employer, or of any licensee or supposed
licensee, in order to determine the accuracy of any return made, or, if no
return was made, to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by the terms of
this chapter. Each employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed
licensee is hereby directed and required to give to the Finance Director or his
or her duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities, and opportunity
for the examination and investigation as are hereby authorized. Upon dispute,
the Finance Director may enforce this right by application to the appropriate
court having jurisdiction over these matters.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity
fails or refuses for any reason to pay when due any fee imposed or required by
this chapter, the city may upon application to a court of competent
jurisdiction, seek injunctive or other extraordinary relief to require the
person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity to cease and desist
from operating or conducting in any respect within the corporate limits of the
city the business enterprise for which the fee is due, until the time as the
fee, plus appropriate penalties and interest, have been paid in full. Should
the city be required to pursue the extraordinary relief, the person, firm,
corporation, partnership, or other entity liable for payment of the fee shall
be liable for all court costs incurred by the city, including reasonable
attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity subject to a fee on gross receipts may be subject to
a penalty equal to 5% of the fee due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity fails to file any return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for filing or as extended by the city, or fails to pay
the fee computed on the return or report on or before the due date prescribed
for payment. The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total fees due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the fee on or before
the time prescribed by this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal
to 5% of the fee due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total
penalty levied pursuant to this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total
fees due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the fees shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the fee was due until the fee is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every fee imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the fee is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational fees due under
this chapter and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions
(A), (B), (C), and (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay fees owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the fee or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 11-13-2008)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Title
   
113.002   Definitions
   
113.003   Incorporation of state law
   
113.004   Scope of coverage
   
113.005   Deposit of fees, fines to general funds
   
113.006   Notice to State ABC Board of fees levied
Administration
   
113.020   Office of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator established
   
113.021   Oath; bond
   
113.022   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (CABC) to enforce
   
113.023   Functions; duties and powers
   
113.024   Administrator to have police power
   
113.025   Right of inspection
Licensing Regulations
   
113.040   Number of licenses
   
113.041   Distilled spirits and wine licenses; fees
   
113.042   Malt beverage licenses, fees
   
113.043   Restaurant wine license; fees
   
113.044   Consumption of drink on premises; license required; fee
   
113.045   Special private club license; fees
   
113.046   Limited golf course license; fees
   
113.047   Malt beverage consumption on premises
   
113.048   Special Sunday sale licenses
   
113.049   License term; renewal
   
113.050   Pro-ration; refunds prohibited
   
113.051   Assignment, transfer, continuance, license replacement
   
113.052   Location of business restricted
   
113.053   Application; contents; emergency action
   
113.054   Approval or denial of application
   
113.055   Payment of fees
   
113.056   Posting of licenses; public record
   
113.057   License to become void if business dormant; license renewal
   
113.058   Causes for refusal to issue or renew license; suspension or
revocation of license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
113.070   License required for sale
   
113.071   Hours of sale
   
113.072   Exceptions to mandatory closing times; requirements
   
113.073   Confiscation authorized if violation occurs
   
113.074   Advertising restrictions
   
113.075   Retail sales to certain persons prohibited
   
113.076   Minors neither to possess or purchase alcoholic beverages nor to
misrepresent age; use of fraudulent identification
   
113.077   Licensee to display notice regarding sale to minors
   
113.078   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Regulatory License Fee
   
113.090   Regulatory license fee imposed
   
113.091   Payment
   
113.092   Failure to pay
   
113.093   Interest on late payments
   
113.094   Adequate record keeping required
 
   
113.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known and may be cited as the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance of the City of Earlington, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in KRS 241.010 are adopted as the meaning of such
word as used in this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.003 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of Kentucky Revised Statutes (KRS) Chapters 241, 242,
243 and 244, as well as amendments and supplements thereto, are hereby adopted
as part of the Alcoholic Beverage Control law of the City of Earlington, except
as otherwise lawfully provided herein. As used herein “State” means the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and “City” means the City of Earlington, Kentucky.
   (B)   Any violation of state law relating to the sale, production, storing,
or otherwise trafficking in alcoholic beverages shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall sell, deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale,
or for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter and all state statutes and
regulations applicable thereto.
   (D)   All prohibitions, restrictions and regulations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages contained in KRS Chapter 244 shall apply to alcoholic beverages in
the city.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.004 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the traffic in malt
beverages, distilled spirits, and wine where the context permits such
applications. Unless the context otherwise admits or requires, the term
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES shall mean and shall include
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner,
proprietor, employee or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city
where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any states
statutes or regulations.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.005 DEPOSIT OF FEES, FINES TO GENERAL FUNDS.
   All monies derived from license fees or from fines as provided in this
chapter shall be paid to the treasury of the city and become a part of the
general funds of the city.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.006 NOTICE TO STATE ABC BOARD OF FEES LEVIED.
   This chapter is and shall be subject to the provisions of KRS 243.610. The
City Clerk shall give notice to the State Alcoholic Beverage Board of any fees
or assessments levied under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 113.020 OFFICE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the office of Earlington Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator (CABC) is created. Pursuant to KRS 241.170, the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (CABC) shall be appointed by the Mayor. The City
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (CABC) shall serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.021 OATH; BOND.
   Prior to entering upon the duties of the position, the CABC shall take the
oath prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth, and he/
she shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not
less than $ 1,000. Any city employee under the supervision of the CABC shall
execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the CABC may deem necessary.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.022 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR (CABC) TO ENFORCE.
   The CABC shall have the power and authority to promulgate such regulations
as may be necessary to implement and/or administer this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.023 FUNCTIONS; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The functions of the CABC shall be the same with respect to city licenses
and regulations as is the function of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board (“Board”) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no
regulation of the CABC shall be less stringent than the state statutes and
regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control. The CABC shall have the
same powers and duties with respect to suspension and revocation for cause of
city licenses as the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board has with respect to
state licenses under KRS 241.060. The CABC, on his or her own initiative, or on
the complaint of any person, may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any
license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.024 ADMINISTRATOR TO HAVE POLICE POWER.
   The CABC and the CABC’s investigators shall have the full police powers of
peace officers, and their jurisdiction shall be coextensive with the boundaries
of the city. They may inspect any premises where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining
a search warrant. They may confiscate any contraband property.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.025 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The CABC shall have access at all reasonable times, for inspection to all
books and records required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150 and
shall simultaneously receive copies of all reports submitted by licensees to
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 113.040 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The number of retail package, retail drink, retail beer, wholesale beer
distributors and wholesale distilled spirits distributors and wholesale
distilled spirits distributors licenses issued in the city shall not exceed the
number and type as set forth in KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243 or 244 and all
administrative regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.041 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE LICENSES; FEES.
   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following kinds of
distilled spirits and wine licenses upon proper application and the payment of
prescribed fee. This section shall not be construed to limit the city’s
authority under KRS 242.185(4) and §
113.044 of this chapter, or any other provision of law, to issue licenses
permitted by KRS 243.070.
 
License Type                                               Fee
Retail package license, per annum                          $600
Special temporary wine license, per event                  $50
Motel drink license or restaurant drink license, per annum $600
 
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   The first statute cited in this section, KRS 242.185(4), was repealed by the
2013 Acts
§ 113.042 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSES, FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following
kinds of malt beverage licenses upon proper application and the payment of
prescribed fee:
 
License Type                                              Fee
Retailer Malt Beverage license, per annum                 $200
Special Temporary Retail Malt Beverage license, per event $25
 
   (B)   A special temporary wine license shall only be issued for the purposes
enumerated in KRS 243.260. A special temporary retail malt beverage license
shall only be issued for the purposes enumerated in KRS 243.290.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   The second statute cited in this section, KRS 243.290, was repealed by the
2013 Acts
§ 113.043 RESTAURANT WINE LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   A restaurant wine license may be issued to an applicant who is an
owner or lessee of a restaurant which receives 50% or more of its gross annual
income from the sale of food and has a minimum seating capacity of 50 persons
at tables.
   (B)   The issuance of a restaurant wine license shall be subject to the
limitations of KRS 241.060(2) and 241.065.
   (C)   A restaurant wine license shall authorize a licensee to purchase,
receive and sell wine at retail for consumption on the licensed premises. Such
licensee shall purchase wine only from licensed wholesalers.
   (D)   The fee for a restaurant wine license shall be $600 per annum for a
new applicant and $400 per annum for a renewal license.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.044 CONSUMPTION OF DRINK ON PREMISES; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   The City Council, pursuant to KRS 242.185, has determined that an
economic hardship exists within the city, as is evidenced by Hopkins County’s
high rate of unemployment of more than 10%, slow rate of growth and a decline
in population in the City of Earlington which has been caused by economic
opportunities. The City Council has further determined that the licensing
authorization contained in divisions (B) and (C) of this section could aid
economic growth. Further, the City Council adopts this chapter, i.e. the
“Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance of the City of Earlington”, as a
comprehensive, regulatory ordinance covering, inter alia, the licensing and
operation of hotels, motels, inns, and restaurants for the sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue licenses
authorizing hotels, motels, inns or restaurants to sell alcoholic beverages by
the drink for consumption on the premises. The licenses shall only be issued to
hotels, motels or inns containing not less than 50 sleeping units and having
dining facilities for not less than 100 persons, or bona fide restaurants open
to the general public having dining facilities for not less than 100 persons.
The term BONA FIDE RESTAURANTS as used in this section shall mean, in addition
to having the minimum seating requirements set forth above, restaurants which
derive at least 50% of their gross revenue from the sale of food for
consumption on the premises; this requirement is and shall be in accord with
KRS 242.1295. The fee for such a license shall be $600 per annum.
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 242.185(4), the CABC is authorized to issue any
license permitted by KRS 243.070, and the activity thereby licensed is
permitted in accordance with state law and city law.
   (D)   Unless a different license fee is provided for in this chapter, the
City of Earlington license fee for any license authorized by KRS 243.070 shall
be the maximum license fee allowed to the City by KRS 243.070, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   All regulations which may be issued to administer KRS 242.185, this
section of this chapter, and any other provision of this chapter or state law,
shall conform to the requirements of KRS 241.190.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   The authorizing statute cited in this section, KRS 242.185, was repealed by
the 2013 Acts
§ 113.045 SPECIAL PRIVATE CLUB LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue a private club
license to any nonprofit social, fraternal, military or political organization
or club, which for more than one year prior to the date of application has
maintained and operated a club room or rooms from which the general public is
excluded. The license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the privilege of
a malt beverage or a distilled spirits and wine retail drink licensee, or both,
at the designated premises if the general public is excluded. All restrictions
and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine retail drink license
shall apply to a special private club licensee. (KRS 243.270).
   (B)   The fee for this category of license shall be:
 
License Type                            Fee
Special private club license, per annum $300
 
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.046 LIMITED GOLF COURSE LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue limited golf
course licenses as authorized by KRS 243.070. The licenses shall include
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages.
   (B)   The fee for this category of license shall be:
 
License Type                           Fee
Limited Golf Course License, per annum $800
 
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.047 MALT BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   The City Council has determined that it is desirable and appropriate to
regulate conduct on premises licensed to sell malt beverages at retail. State
law makes no distinction between package sales of malt beverages and sale of
malt beverages for consumption on the premises. The city finds that while a
number of licensed premises may be suitable for the sale of malt beverages to
be removed for consumption elsewhere, there are also a number of premises which
are not suitable or appropriate for consumption of malt beverages on the
premises. Examples include, but are not limited to, package distilled spirits
and wine stores, grocery stores, convenience stores, and premises which do not
have adequate facilities for the congregation of customers who are consuming on
premises, such as availability of food, adequate restrooms, and at least a
minimum of seating for customers.
   (A)   Except for special temporary retail malt beverage licenses issued for
consumption of malt beverages on the premises, no malt beverage licensee shall
allow consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed premises unless the
licensee also holds, for the same premises a:
      (1)   Restaurant wine license;
      (2)   Motel drink license;
      (3)   Restaurant drink license; or
      (4)   Special private club license.
   (B)   If no license set out in division (A) of this section is held by the
malt beverage licensee, malt beverage consumption on the premises may
nevertheless be allowed by the licensee on a restaurant premises having seating
at table for no less than 50 persons, and which receives no less than 50% of
its total food sales and alcoholic beverage sales from the sale of food.
   (C)   The intent of this section is to regulate and establish standards of
conduct on premises selling malt beverages under license. This section shall
not be construed as imposing any limitation upon the number of malt beverages
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter. Nothing contained in this section
shall be construed as prohibiting a licensee from selling malt beverages upon
the licensed premises. The sole prohibition contained in this section is
allowing consumption of malt beverages on the licensed premises if the nature
of the premises does not conform with one of the situations described in
divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4), or division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.048 SPECIAL SUNDAY SALE LICENSES.
   Any person or entity possessing a valid retail drink license, restaurant
wine license, or a special private club license may apply for a special limited
Sunday sale retail drink license to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages by the drink on Sunday between 1:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. No sale of
alcoholic beverages may be sold on Sunday until the applicant has applied for
and obtained a limited Sunday liquor by the drink license from the Kentucky
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control and has paid all application license
fees and costs associated therewith.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.049 LICENSE TERM; RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal of licenses required by this chapter shall be made
for each license year, which, in order to coincide with the state license year,
shall begin the first day of May and extend through the last day of April of
the succeeding year. Applications for renewal are to be filed with the CABC no
less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.050 PRO-RATION; REFUNDS PROHIBITED.
   Pro-ration of fees shall be as provided for state licenses in KRS 243.090.
In the event any licensee shall cease doing business for any reasons, no refund
of the city license shall be granted to such licensee.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.051 ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, CONTINUANCE, LICENSE REPLACEMENT.
   The assignment, transfer, continuance, pledge or hypothecation of city
licenses shall be governed by the provisions of KRS 243.630, 243.640, 243.650
and 243.660. An approval by the state, under those statutes, shall be deemed an
approval by the city. Non-approval by the state shall be deemed non-approval by
the city. No city license may be sold or otherwise transferred (including
transfer to any premises) unless the proposed transfer shall have first
received the approval of the State Board, and thereafter the acknowledgment of
the CABC is given. A transfer fee of $25 shall be paid to the city. When a
license has been lost or destroyed, the CABC may issue a duplicate or
replacement license upon payment of a fee of $25.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.052 LOCATION OF BUSINESS RESTRICTED.
   Licenses under this chapter shall not authorize the conduct of business in
any place other than that specifically described in the original state
application and license. Any additional buildings or rooms attached to licensed
premises and requiring separate service bars shall require a city supplemental
bar license.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.053 APPLICATION; CONTENTS; EMERGENCY ACTION.
   An applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the CABC a
copy of such applicant’s state license application containing the information
required by KRS 243.380 and 243.390. The city application shall include the
consent of the applicant permitting the CABC to inspect and search the licensed
premises at any reasonable time, to confiscate articles found on the premises
in violation of any ordinance, statute, or regulation, and to order an
emergency temporary closure of the premises if the public health, safety,
morals and welfare is threatened by one or more violations of any ordinance or
statute involving disturbance of the peace or public disorder. The temporary
closure shall remain in effect until review of the alleged violations by the
CABC, which review shall occur within 36 hours of the imposition of the
temporary closure.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.054 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon review of the application, the CABC may approve the application
if the CABC determines that:
      (1)   The applicant has complied with all requirements of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control law, as well as all regulatory provisions of this
chapter;
      (2)   The location is one that can be approved, including but not limited
to the requirements of KRS 243.220;
      (3)   A license may be issued within the quota limits fixed by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board; and
      (4)   There are no other causes for denial of the license.
   (B)   If the CABC has reasonable grounds to believe that an applicant has
violated any law, rule or regulation relating to alcoholic beverages, the CABC
may issue to the applicant a written order setting forth such violation and
requiring the applicant to show cause why the requested license should be
issued. The CABC shall have the right to order, and the applicant shall have
the right to request, an evidentiary hearing to examine the violation set forth
in the show cause order issued by the CABC. Any decision by the CABC on the
application shall be subject to appeal as provided by law.
   (C)   As prescribed by KRS 243.550, hearings upon appeals from orders of the
CABC or upon proceedings for revocation or suspension shall be held by the
Board. The Board may, at is discretion, hold the hearing in Frankfort, or in
the county where the licensed premises, or the premises to be licensed, are
located. Decisions shall be made and final orders entered only upon the vote of
a majority of the Board. The hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 13B. Pursuant to KRS 243.560, any final order of the
board refusing, revoking or suspending a license may be appealed from by the
applicant or licensee, and any final order of the Board granting or refusing to
revoke or suspend a license may be appealed from by any citizen feeling himself
or herself aggrieved.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.055 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Upon approval of the application by the CABC, the applicant shall pay to the
City Clerk the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter in the form
of a certified check, money order or cash. Payment shall be held on deposit by
the city pending state license approval and issuance of the city license by the
CABC.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.056 POSTING OF LICENSES; PUBLIC RECORD.
   Each city license shall be in substantially the same form prescribed by KRS
243.440 for state licenses, and shall be posted at the licensed premises in the
same manner prescribed by KRS 243.620 for state licenses. An exact duplicate or
facsimile of each city license shall remain in the CABC’s office as part of the
public record.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.057 LICENSE TO BECOME VOID IF BUSINESS DORMANT; LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Under the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, all
administrative regulations promulgated pursuant to the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, and this chapter, as they may be amended from time
to time, a quota system may exist for the number of licenses to sell alcoholic
beverages in the city. Therefore, it is necessary that a licensee actually
conduct the business, may suffer an interruption of business by situations not
under the licensee’s control and various exceptions to this dormancy rule are
included in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall become null and void. At the expiration of the 90-day period, the
license shall be surrendered to the CABC, except that any licensee who is
unable to continue in business at the licensed premises may apply to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Department, pursuant to 804 KAR 4:110, as amended
from time to time, to continue such license in dormancy. In the event a period
of dormancy is applied for or granted by the state, to the licensee, the
licensee shall immediately notify the CABC. Upon resumption of business or
transfer or assignment of the license, the licensee shall notify the CABC and a
fee shall be due and payable to the CABC for the period the licensee was in
dormancy in the same amount due had the license remained active for the same
period.
   (C)   Applications approved by the CABC and based on pending construction or
development on the premises shall be null and void after 90 days of the
commitment to issue a license if the applicant fails to proceed in an orderly
fashion to initiate construction or development on the premises involved.
Extensions may be granted by the CABC as he or she deems appropriate in
exercise of sound discretion based on facts and circumstances surrounding each
request.
   (D)   Applications for renewal of licenses and payment of the license fee
must be on file with the CABC at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days,
before the expiration of the licenses for the preceding license period, or the
license shall be cancelled. However, the licensee may file a written, verified
statement at least 15 days prior to the expiration date of the license, setting
forth facts justifying an extension. The CABC may then extend the time for
filing an application for renewal of the license for a reasonable length of
time within the exercise of his or her sound discretion. The licensee shall pay
the license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses and
payment shall be refunded to the licensee in the event that the license or
licenses are not renewed at or before the end of the extension period.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.058 CAUSES FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a city license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.500, as well as violation of any city
ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licensing, sales, the administration of
licenses, or a licensee allowing conduct on the licensed premises which is
prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed to
any person or other entity delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of issuing the license; nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee, upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city. If a
licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the
city at any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension. The CABC may, in his or
her discretion, approve a license to sell after receiving from the City Clerk,
a written statement to the effect that the applicant for the license has paid
the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and delinquent taxes or fees. This
section shall apply only to taxes and fees which are due and payable by the
licensee.
   (C)   No retail package liquor license shall be issued for any premises
unless the applicant certifies under oath that 90% of the total projected gross
receipts from sale made at the licensed premises during the 12 month period
following the issuance of the license shall consist of the projected gross
receipts from sales of alcoholic beverages. No retail package liquor shall be
renewed for any premises unless 90% of its gross receipts from sales for the
immediate past month and the immediate past 12 months have been derived from
the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Appeals may be taken from decisions of the CABC to the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board according to the provisions of KRS 241.200 and 243.550.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 113.070 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   No person shall sell or dispense at retail, or have in his or her possession
for sale, any alcoholic beverages, nor manufacture or transport any alcoholic
beverages in the city unless first procuring a license under the provisions of
this chapter, all state statutes, and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
The revocation, suspension, non-renewal, or other action which obviates the
state license shall also operate to invalidate the corresponding city license.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.071 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for the sale at
retail of distilled spirits and wine by the package shall be permitted to
remain open during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, but shall remain
closed during the 24 hours of Sunday, Christmas, and at any time when the
election polls are open in the precinct in which the licensee’s business is
located.
   (B)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for other retail
sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be permitted to remain open
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, but shall be closed during
the 24 hours of each Sunday except as provided for in §
113.048 governing alcohol sales on Sunday, Christmas and at any time when the
election polls are open in the precinct in which the licensee’s business is
located. However, if the licensee provides a separate department within the
licensed premises capable of being locked and closed off, within which is kept
all stocks of alcoholic beverages, and if the department is kept locked during
the aforesaid time the licensee is not permitted to remain open to sell
alcoholic beverages, the licensee shall be deemed to have complied with
division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Retail sales of malt beverages may be made between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight each day except that no such sales shall be made during
the 24 hours of each Sunday except as provided for in §
113.048 governing alcohol sales on Sunday, Christmas, or during any time when
the polls are open for an election in the precinct in which the license is
granted. Premises for which a malt beverage license has been issued shall be
permitted to remain open during the periods such sales are prohibited if all
iced or chilled malt beverages are locked up and/or unshelled malt beverages
are properly placarded indicating that the sale of such goods is prohibited.
   (D)   Any licensee for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
who violates the preceding division shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the
license shall be subject to revocation or suspension within the discretion of
the CABC.
   (E)   During the time a licensee’s business is actually closed, the premises
of any licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
must be closed to and vacant of all customers and all persons except the
licensee and employees, who shall be allowed on the premises for business
purposes only. Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, given away, delivered or
consumed by anyone in any room of the premises during the closing hours, and no
parties, private or public, shall be held on the premises. The premises shall
not be loaned, rented or leased to anyone during closing hours for a party or
for any other purposes.
   (F)   Wholesalers shall not deliver alcoholic beverages on Sunday.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.072 EXCEPTIONS TO MANDATORY CLOSING TIMES; REQUIREMENTS.
   A licensee of a premises holding a motel drink license; or a licensee of a
premises holding a restaurant drink license; or a licensee of a premises
holding a restaurant wine license shall be allowed to remain open during hours
when the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited for the sole purpose of
providing food services to the public. However, all stocks of alcoholic
beverages shall be locked and closed off from the public during that time
period.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.073 CONFISCATION AUTHORIZED IF VIOLATION OCCURS.
   If any alcoholic beverages are found on the outside of the locked or closed-
off department of any licensed premises at any hours during which the licensee
is prohibited by the state law or by this chapter from selling alcoholic
beverages, a prima facie presumption shall arise that such alcoholic beverages
were kept outside the locked or closed-off section for the purpose of sale in
violation of this chapter and the state law and shall be grounds for revocation
or suspension of the license. In addition to other penalties provided for the
violation of this chapter, the CABC is hereby authorized to confiscate the
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.074 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding any license under this
chapter to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a
premium or prize, or for any other purpose in connection with the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with this chapter, KRS 244.130, and any regulation promulgated
pursuant to KRS 244.130.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011; Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-14-2023) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.075 RETAIL SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No retail licensee shall sell, give away or deliver any alcoholic beverages,
or procure or permit any alcoholic beverages to be sold, given away or
delivered to:
   (A)   A minor, except that in any prosecution for selling alcoholic
beverages to a minor it shall be an affirmative defense that the sale was
induced by the use of false, fraudulent, or altered identification papers or
other documents, and that the appearance and character of the purchaser were
such that his or her age could not have been ascertained by any other means and
that the purchaser’s appearance and character indicated strongly that he or she
was of legal age to purchase alcoholic beverages. This evidence may be
introduced either in mitigation of the charge or as a defense to the charge
itself;
   (B)   A person actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic
beverages;
   (C)   Anyone known to the seller or server to be an habitual drunkard or any
person known to the seller or server to have been convicted of drunkenness as
many as three times within the most recent 12-month period; and
   (D)   Anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of any
misdemeanor attributable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic
beverages or anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of a
felony.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.076 MINORS NEITHER TO POSSESS OR PURCHASE ALCOHLIC BEVERAGES NOR TO
MISREPRESENT AGE; USE OF FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in KRS 244.083 and this section PREMISES means the place of
business of a person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages including, in the
case of drive-in establishments, the entire lot upon which the business
establishment is situated.
   (B)   With regard to persons under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no person under 21 years of age shall
enter any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose
of purchasing or receiving any alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   No person holding any license for on-premises consumption of
distilled spirits and wine or a license for retail malt beverage sales, or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee thereof shall permit any person under the age
of 21 years on the licensed premises unless such premises is a restaurant,
grocery store, hotel, private club, or upon the premises for a temporary
licensed event, including plays or bona fide concerts. In such exempted
premises, persons under 21 years of age shall not enter the barroom area;
      (3)   Minors not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian shall not
remain on a licensed premises classified herein as a restaurant after the hour
of 10:00 p.m. unless the minor remains only in the designated restaurant area
which is clearly separated from both the barroom area and any area provided for
dancing; and
      (4)   The prohibitions set forth in divisions (B)(1), (2) and (3) of this
section shall not apply to persons under the age of 21 who are working on the
premises, either as an employee or an independent contractor, which persons may
enter and remain on the premises while they are working, and at no other time.
   (C)   A licensee or any of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees
is guilty of permitting the unlawful possession or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on licensed premises when he or she:
      (1)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases, or exercises control
or ownership of real estate, including but not limited to the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and permits any person under the age of 21 to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage on the premises; or
      (2)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases, or exercises control
or ownership of real estate, including but not limited to the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and allows or permits any person under the
age of 21 years to remain on the premises while that person possesses or
consumes any alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   In the event a violation occurs under the provisions of this section,
the CABC shall forthwith determine whether the licensee, at whose business
establishment the prohibited activity occurred, may have such license suspended
or revoked. In the event three or more violations under the provisions of this
section occur at a business establishment within a 12 month period, the CABC
shall suspend or revoke said license.
   (E)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess for his or her own use
or purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her, any
alcoholic beverages. No person shall aid or assist any person under 21 years of
age in purchasing or having delivered or served to him or her any alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age for
the purpose of inducing any licensee, or other employee of any licensee, to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverages to such person.
   (G)   No person under 21 years of age shall use, or attempt to use, any
false, fraudulent, or altered identification card or paper, or any other
document, to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any alcoholic
beverage.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.077 LICENSEE TO DISPLAY NOTICE REGARDING SALE TO MINORS.
   Every retail licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a
printed card at least eight inches by 11 inches in size which shall show, in 30
point or larger type, substantially as follows:
      Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine up to $100 if they:
         (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them,
alcoholic beverages.
         (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
         (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.078 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   SERVER for purposes of this section shall mean any person employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, volunteer help or as a working
proprietor, in any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages where
alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed by the drink or where malt beverages
are sold for consumption on the premises and whose job duties include the sale,
dispensing or service of alcoholic beverages or the management of the licensed
premises.
   (B)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program. For a responsible beverage service training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed in this chapter.
   (C)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) of this
section shall complete that training within 60 days of the date on which the
person first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons
completing the training required by this section shall be re-certified in
responsible beverage service training from a program approved by the city not
less than once every three years thereafter.
   (D)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the CABC a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information.
   (E)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary alcoholic
beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
§ 113.090 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee is imposed upon the gross receipts of each
establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The regulatory license fee
is for the purpose of insuring full reimbursement to the city for the costs of
any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The City Council shall adopt, at the
budget adoption for the fiscal year, an annual rate for the regulatory license
fee as shall be reasonably estimated to insure full reimbursement to the city
for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses
related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license
fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or licenses permitted by
law, but a credit against the fee shall be allowed in an amount equal to the
licenses or fees imposed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The regulatory license fee shall be 1% for the licensing year
beginning September 1, 2022, and continuing thereafter until amended or
repealed.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011; Ord. 2022-7, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 113.091 PAYMENT.
   Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns approved
for use by the CABC and the City Clerk. The return shall be submitted to the
CABC by the fifteenth day of each month for the preceding month’s sales. The
fraction of the fee required under the provisions of this chapter, represented
by one divided by the number of months for which the city license was issued,
shall be deducted each month as a credit.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.092 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the due date
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.093 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS.
   Interest shall be assessed upon any past due payments at the rate of 12% per
annum.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 113.094 ADEQUATE RECORD KEEPING REQUIRED.
   Every licensee shall keep and maintain adequate books and records of all
transactions involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner
required by the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, or such rules and regulations as may be from time to time promulgated by
the CABC. Where the sales of alcoholic beverages as they relate to other sales
are determinative of the licensee’s eligibility to retain a license, the
licensee shall maintain adequate records to show that relationship. The books
and records shall be available at all reasonable times for inspection by the
CABC, the City Auditor, or any authorized representatives.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties penalty for nonpayment. If the holder of any license shall
fail to pay the regulatory license fee imposed by this chapter within ten days
of the due date, an automatic penalty of $50 shall be assessed for the first
offense. An automatic penalty of $100 shall be assessed on the second offense,
and an automatic penalty of $200 shall be assessed on the third offense. In
addition to the monetary penalty, the CABC may hold a hearing for a second and
third offense requiring the licensee to show cause why the license should not
be suspended or revoked with full authority to do so upon appropriate findings.
The calculation of the number of offenses for the purpose of invoking the above
penalties shall be done on a 12-month basis, with the number of offenses being
reduced to zero at the beginning of each new license period.
   (B)   Infraction constitutes a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be subject to the
following penalties:
         (a)   For the first offense a fine not to exceed $500;
         (b)   For any subsequent offense a fine not to exceed $500 or
confinement in jail not more than six months, or both.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided for herein, any licensee
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to suspension or
revocation of such licensee’s license, subsequent to a hearing before the CABC.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-28-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms prohibited
   
130.02   Hunting of wild game prohibited
   
130.03   Bucket brigades prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to shoot or discharge firearms within the city limits.
(Ord. passed 9-9-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 HUNTING OF WILD GAME PROHIBITED.
   For the public safety and welfare of our citizens, beginning 11-15-2000,
there will be no hunting of wild game in the city limits.
(Res. 00-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 BUCKET BRIGADES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to conduct or
participate in a bucket brigade upon any streets, roadways, or thoroughfares
within the city limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUCKET BRIGADE. Any solicitation for money or gift.
   (C)   This section shall take effect after its passage and upon publication.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-24-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Any person or entity in violation of the provisions of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined $250.
(Ord. passed 9-9-1986; Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-24-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
151.   COAL MINING
         
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
153.   MOBILE HOMES
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   ZONING CODE
         
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Building Regulations
   
150.01   Standard codes adopted
   
150.02   Enforcement
   
150.03   Building permits; application and fees
   
150.04   Conflicting provisions
General Provisions
   
150.15   Commercial signs and structures
   
150.16   Address and property numbering system
   
150.17   Certain activities in and around the watershed of Loch Mary Lake
prohibited
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 STANDARD CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of establishing uniform rules and regulations, the
City Council hereby adopts the following codes:
      (1)   The most current edition of the State Building Code;
      (2)   The most current edition of the State Plumbing Code; and
      (3)   The most current edition of the Housing and Unsafe Building Code.
   (B)   The above-named codes, of which not less than three copies have been
and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. The provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction, alteration, or repair of all
buildings and/or structures contained within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the
official or agency designated by the appropriate appointing power.
   (B)   For the purpose of making surveys, inspections, and investigations,
the Building Official is hereby authorized, upon identification and statement
of purpose, to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested
by the owner or occupant, all buildings, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
units, and general premises. The owner or occupant of every building, dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, and general premises, or the person in charge
thereof, shall give the Building Official free access to the building,
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or general premises for the purpose of
the inspection, survey, or investigation.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1967)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMITS; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   When required.
      (1)   Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, insert other items, such as heating, electrical, and the
like, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the
Building Official and obtain the required permit therefor.
      (2)   Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the
Building Official without a permit; provided that the repairs shall not violate
any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Form.
      (1)   Each application for a permit with the required fee shall be filed
with the Building Official, on a form furnished by him or her, and shall
contain a general description of the work and its location. The application
shall be signed by the owner or his or her authorized agent.
      (2)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the proposed occupancy
of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any,
not covered by the building or structure, and shall contain any other
information as may be required by the Building Official.
   (C)   Fees. The following fees shall accompany each application for building
permits, remodeling permits, and other fees under the zoning ordinance of the
city. The fees shall accompany each application for the following in the
amounts shown.
      (1)   New construction building permits.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Single-family.
               a.   Less than 1,300 square feet of floor space: $50; and
               b.   One thousand three hundred or more square feet of floor
space: $100, plus $10 for each 100 square feet or fraction thereof over 1,300
square feet, with a maximum of $200.
            2.   Multi-family.
               a.   Two-family unit: $100; and
               b.   Each additional unit under same roof: $25.
         (b)   Commercial.
            1.   Less than 5,000 square feet of floor space: $100; and
            2.   Five thousand or more square feet of floor space: $100, plus
$10 for each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof over 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   Industrial.
            1.   Less than 10,000 square feet of floor space: $200; and
            2.   Ten thousand or more square feet of floor space: $200, plus
$10 for each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof over 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Remodel building permits.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Single-family, structural alteration, room addition, carport,
garage, porch addition or enclosure, swimming pool, and any other construction
that extends into the yard area: $25; and
            2.   Multi-family (each unit), structural alteration, room
addition, carport, garage, porch addition or enclosure, swimming pool, and any
other construction that extends into the yard area: $25.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial. Structural alteration, addition,
utility building, and any other construction that extends into the yard area,
parking lot, or loading and unloading zone: $50, plus $10 for each 1,000 square
feet or fraction thereof added over 5,000 square feet.
      (3)   Other fees.
         (a)   Request for zoning amendment: $100, plus $75 for each public
hearing required;
         (b)   Request for conditional use permit, including mobile homes: $40,
plus $25 for each public hearing required, plus $10 for renewal;
         (c)   Request for dimensional variance: $40, plus $25 for each public
hearing required;
         (d)   Subdivision plat:
            1.   Minor plat: $25;
            2.   Preliminary plat review: $50, plus $1 for each lot, with a
maximum of $100; and
            3.   Final plat review: $50, plus $1 for each lot, with a maximum
of $100.
         (e)   The fees listed in this division (C)(3) shall not be refunded.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1967; Ord. passed 8-22-1978)
§ 150.04 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with any existing code, ordinance, or regulation of the city, the provision
which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1967)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.15 COMMERCIAL SIGNS AND STRUCTURES.
   Any and all commercially-zoned property located within the city limits must
have a building built for the purpose of doing business prior to any permanent
signage or structure being erected on the property. Only storefront signs for
advertisement will be allowed on commercially-zoned property within the city
limits.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 ADDRESS AND PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The numbering system is established and shall be maintained for all
houses and commercial properties located inside the incorporated areas of the
city.
   (B)   Any homeowner or property owner shall place a number at least three
inches tall above or beside the front door of the dwelling house or commercial
building. For any residence or commercial property having a roadside mailbox,
numbers at least one inch tall shall be placed on each side of the mailbox in
addition to the numbers on the house or building. This section shall apply only
to the incorporated areas and these numbers shall be affixed on or before 10-
11-2004.
   (C)   This section shall take effect after its passage and upon publication.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 8-10-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES IN AND AROUND THE WATERSHED OF LOCH MARY LAKE
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to construct or maintain
any boat dock, pier, or structure of any kind so as to extend into or over the
water of Loch Mary Lake. This shall exclude any and all boat docks, piers, or
other structures constructed or maintained by the city and any boat docks,
piers, or other structures that are in place prior to passage of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to use chemicals of any
kind upon lawns or in any area of the watershed of Loch Mary Lake, unless those
chemicals are watershed approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   (C)   This section shall take effect after its passage and upon publication.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
150.16 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person or entity in violation of the provisions of §
150.17 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $150 for each violation of §
150.17(A) and not less than $100 per day nor more than $150 per day for
violation of §
150.17(B). Any person or entity in violation of the provisions of §
150.17 shall also be subject to appropriate court orders enjoining the
prohibited activities and reasonable court costs and attorney's fees incurred
by the city in enforcing §
150.17.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-3, passed 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 151: COAL MINING
Section
   
151.01   Underground mining prohibited
   
151.02   Strip mining prohibited
   
151.03   Exceptions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 UNDERGROUND MINING PROHIBITED.
   Mining of minerals, including coal, and other substances by the underground
or deep shaft method of mining within the city limits is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1985) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 STRIP MINING PROHIBITED.
   Mining of minerals, including coal, and other substances by the surface,
auger, or strip method of mining within the city limits is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1985) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   There is excepted and excluded from the provisions of this chapter any
mining activities which are presently in existence and producing minerals,
including coal, on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   There is further excepted and excluded from the provisions of this
chapter any planned mining activities for which an application for permit has
been filed with the State Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Cabinet on the effective date of this chapter or any planned mining activities
for which a permit has been issued by the State Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet on the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1985)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500 for each violation and each day of operation shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1985)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan of the County Joint Planning Commission, as
amended from time to time, was adopted by ordinance passed 7-11-1967, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   Copies of the Comprehensive Plan shall be available during normal
business hours in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Short title
   
153.02   Interpretation and conflict
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Permit required; health and safety standards; exception
   
153.05   Individual lots; permit approval and nontransferability
   
153.06   Application procedure
   
153.07   Fees
   
153.08   Development standards
   
153.09   Number of uses per lot
   
153.10   Existing mobile homes
   
153.11   Replacement mobile homes
   
153.12   Amendments
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Individual Mobile Home
Ordinance of the City of Earlington, Kentucky."
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.02 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare.
   (B)   The invalidity of any provision or section of this chapter shall not
be held to invalidate any other section or provision of this chapter.
   (C)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any ordinance, rule, regulation, or permit previously adopted or issued
and not in conflict with any provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any easements, covenants, or other written agreements between parties;
provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of structures or land, or requires larger open spaces or lot areas than
are imposed or required by the ordinances or agreements, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected officers of the City of Earlington, Kentucky.
   INDIVIDUAL MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel or lot of land recorded in the County
Clerk's office, having an area sufficient for the placement of a mobile home,
and providing facilities for long-term occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis of which
wheels are an intrinsic part, designed for permanent occupancy, and is provided
with a toilet, bathtub, or shower. A dwelling unit.
   MOBILE HOME ANCHOR OR TIE-DOWN. Devices provided to prevent movement, such
as uplift, shifting, or overturning of the mobile home. These devices may be
provided by eyelets imbedded in concrete with adequate anchor plates or hooks,
or other suitable means. Anchors and tie-downs shall be designed to be an
intrinsic part of the mobile home stand.
      (1)   MOBILE HOME FRAME ANCHOR. A mobile home anchor specifically
designed to be attached to the frame of the mobile home.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME TIE-DOWN. A cable or other device designed to be placed
over the top of a mobile home and fastened to an anchor. The tie-down is
designed to prevent uplift and lateral movement of the mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PERMIT. The allowance of a mobile home in a specific zoning
district upon the granting of a permit by the City Council.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual mobile home lot constructed out
of concrete, asphalt, or gravel and reserved for the placement of a mobile
home.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The County Joint Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall maintain or occupy a mobile home
in the city after the date of the adoption of this chapter without first having
obtained a mobile home permit from the City Council.
   (B)   In addition, no mobile home shall be permitted to be located within
the city which does not meet the minimum health and safety standards set by the
state, the county, or separate city ordinances, whichever is more restrictive.
   (C)   The above prohibitions shall not apply to mobile home dealers having
mobile homes not intended to be used for permanent habitation or those mobile
homes intended to be used for temporary office purposes.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 INDIVIDUAL LOTS; PERMIT APPROVAL AND NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   A single mobile home may be placed on an individual private
residentially-zoned lot, upon approval and receipt of a mobile home permit.
   (B)   The mobile home permit shall be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Permits are not transferable. However, any mobile home which existed
in the city as of June 1, 2011 shall be allowed to be transferred upon proper
permit application assuming it meets all codes applicable and is approved by
the City Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer must sign
stating there are no nuisance(s) prior to the transfer of the mobile home. If
there are nuisance(s), the owner will have 30 days to correct the nuisance(s).
After the correction of the nuisance(s), the Code Enforcement Officer must
reinspect and sign stating the nuisance(s) have been corrected. If the nuisance
(s) have not been corrected by day 31, the mobile home will have to be moved.
However, no additional mobile homes shall be allowed to be located within the
city after June 1, 2011.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-5-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for receipt of a mobile home permit shall be made to the
City Codes Administrator.
   (B)   The Codes Administrator shall then refer the permit application to the
County Joint Planning Commission.
   (C)   The person, firm, or corporation requesting the permit shall then
submit the proposed plans and related materials, which shall be in accordance
with §
153.08, to the County Joint Planning Commission for its review.
   (D)   (1)   The Codes Administrator shall be responsible for contacting each
individual property owner (husband and wife) of adjoining property requesting
their opinion.
      (2)   All written comments of abutting property owners received shall be
furnished to the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall then consider all aspects of the
requested permit and forward its recommendations to the City Council who shall
have the final authority on issuing or denying a permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.07 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a mobile home permit shall be $40 plus $25 for each public
hearing required, and the permit shall be renewed yearly.
   (B)   All mobile home permits shall be renewed annually. The renewal fee for
a mobile home permit for an individual mobile home shall be $10. When renewing
a permit for a mobile home at the same location, the City Council may waive the
requirements of §
153.06(B) through (E).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.08 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Plan required.
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted with any request for approval of a mobile
home permit.
      (2)   The plan or sketch shall be submitted in duplicate and shall
contain the following information:
         (a)   The location of the lot or parcel of land on which the mobile
home is located;
         (b)   The location of the mobile home stand with accurate dimensions
to lot lines;
         (c)   Utility connections and, in case of sewer and water lines,
direct connections shown between the mobile home and the utility lines;
         (d)   The names of abutting property owners; and
         (e)   Names of all adjacent public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Lot size and setback requirements. Lot area requirements and lot
frontages shall conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which the
lot is located.
   (C)   Exceptions to lot size and setback requirements. All lots existing at
the time of the adoption of the city zoning ordinance, 8-1-1964, and located in
any residential zoning district having less width or lot area required, and the
owner of the lot, parcel, or tract does not own any lot or parcel adjacent
thereto may, upon application or and approval of a mobile home permit, use the
lot for the placement of an individual mobile home.
   (D)   Anchor and mobile home tie-down requirements. The following minimum
anchor and tie-down requirements shall be required for all mobile homes
receiving a mobile home permit:
 
Mobile Home Length  Frame Anchors per Side Mobile Home Tie-Downs
(in feet)           (number)               (number)
40 or less          4                      2
41 to 60            6                      3
61 and over         8                      4
 
   (E)   Screening requirements. All open areas beneath the mobile home shall
be enclosed with a fire-resistant material which shall render the area beneath
the mobile home impervious to sight.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 NUMBER OF USES PER LOT.
   (A)   Unless specifically permitted by the City Council, no mobile home
shall be placed on a lot occupied by another dwelling unit.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply in the case of mobile home parks
(trailer parks) which are regulated by § 4, Paragraph B-4, of the zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 EXISTING MOBILE HOMES.
   Those mobile homes existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter are
not subject to the above requirements, but will be required to obtain, on an
annual basis, a mobile home permit.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 REPLACEMENT MOBILE HOMES.
   When the mobile home is replaced by another, the replacement mobile home
shall conform to all the requirements and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)   Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be promulgated by an interested city resident
in accordance with § 9, Paragraph E, of the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $50 and no more than $500 for each conviction. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city subdivision regulations, as set forth in the ordinance passed
on 11-22-1977, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as
if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   Copies of the subdivision regulations shall be available during normal
business hours in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1977)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The zoning regulations of the County Joint Planning Commission, as
amended from time to time, were adopted by an ordinance passed 7-7-1980 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set out in full
herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning regulations shall be available during normal
business hours in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1964; Ord. passed 3-25-1967; Ord. passed 7-10-1979; Ord.
2010-3, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2022-4, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 2023-5, passed 5-
9-2023)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Statutory authorization
   
156.02   Findings of fact
   
156.03   Statement of purpose
   
156.04   Objectives
   
156.05   Definitions
   
156.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
156.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
156.08   Establishment of development permit
   
156.09   Compliance
   
156.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.11   Interpretation
   
156.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
156.13   Violations
Administration
   
156.25   Designation of local administrator
   
156.26   Establishment of development permit
   
156.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
156.40   General construction standards
   
156.41   Specific standards
   
156.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
156.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
156.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
156.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter "A"
   
156.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
156.60   Nature of variances
   
156.61   Designation of Appeal Board
   
156.62   Duties of Appeal Board
   
156.63   Procedures
   
156.64   Conditions for variances
   
156.65   Variance notification
   
156.66   Historic structures
   
156.67   No impact certification within the floodway
Flood Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
156.75   Adoption
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, in KRS Ch. 100, delegated to local government
units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council
hereby adopts the following flood plain management ordinance, as follows in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the
location in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood-blighted areas caused by flooding; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations, and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and tooled ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Flood Plain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. The flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than 1 square mile, and areas protected
by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-year flood). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year flood
plain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
flood plain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Flood Plain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by flood waters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Areas downstream from dams are included.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum flood plain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools; nursing homes;
hospitals; police, fire, and emergency response installations; vehicle and
equipment storage facilities; emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during, and after a flood; public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during, and after
a flood; and those facilities or installations which produce, use, or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures, or development into a flood
plain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a flood plain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs
effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as
EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first flood plain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the flood plain management ordinances.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the flood plain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, flood plain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state, and/or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the flood plain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
156.60 through
156.67, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of flood plain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, and flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the United States Department of the Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community flood plain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical
loss by flood. When a building covered by a standard flood insurance policy
under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building
to be substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000
for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish, or remove the building. ICC
coverage is available on residential and nonresidential buildings (this
category includes public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries,
and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation, or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill, or other obstruction, except
those constructed by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, in the floodplain or
floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for the work have
been:
         (a)   Submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction, or improvement; and
         (b)   Approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit issued.
      However, the Cabinet by administration regulation may exempt those dams,
embankments, or other obstructions which are not of the size or type as to
require approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water
supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filling of, or place a building, barrier, or
obstruction of any sort in, any area in the floodplain or floodway unless plans
and specifications for the work have been submitted to and approved by the
Cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in KRS 151.250 is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance, or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes. However, the Cabinet may require
approval prior to construction of structures, dams, embankments, levees,
bridges, fill, or other construction related to agricultural operations that
impact the base flood of a stream.
      (4)   The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Ch. 350 shall have
exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Ch. 151 concerning the regulation of dams,
levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across or
along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Ch. 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. An LOMC includes the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA;
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, flood plain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features;
and
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met.
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. The area must be of flood-resistant material, void of
utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's LOWEST FLOOR, provided that the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
"recreational vehicle." (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA; the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the flood plain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Flood Plain Administrator
only if the MUDFLOW, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing MUDSLIDE (i.e.,
MUDFLOW) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
MUDSLIDE control works, and flood plain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) -PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for MUDFLOW.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer
to FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter and includes any subsequent
improvements to those structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than a six-month duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRM'S
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% or greater
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that
begins with the letter "A" is subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a
30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
(See BASE FLOOD.)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing flood plain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
flood plain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's flood plain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those flood plain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3. 60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive flood plain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local flood plain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority, or other authorized public
body, to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances
that are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or
occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the flood plain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AC, A1-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development.) The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and tilling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   This definition does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an IMPROVEMENT occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   This definition does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure"; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce flood plain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250, and, as determined by the Flood Plain Administrator
or other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined
by the City Council from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
City Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by flood waters that
can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county,
dated 5-16-2008, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs), other
supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city and for
those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Flood Plain
Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing
land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of
the city and are on file and available for review by the public during regular
business hours at the City Hall, 103 West Main Street, Earlington, KY 42410.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
156.26 for instructions and explanation. Application for a development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the Flood Plain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking any lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within those areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, the state, the Federal Insurance Administration, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.13 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a flood plain construction permit
and any approved modifications, the development shall constitute a civil
offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Flood Plain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a flood plain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Flood Plain Administrator shall
issue a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property
owner, stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this
chapter and/or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is
to be remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or
with the approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to
occur, which period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the
nature of the violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The
remedy may include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall
also state that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested
remedies and corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a
civil monetary fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Flood Plain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a flood plain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Flood Plain Administrator may issue
a citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation, or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the County Joint Planning Commission to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Flood Plain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
156.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Flood Plain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of the local
administrator is required before a state flood plain construction permit can be
processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
156.41(B)(2) and
156.43(B)(2); and/or
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Flood Plain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Flood Plain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by the
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-
work order for the project.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Flood Plain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The Flood Plain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose, by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Flood Plain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or stale permit requirements are known, require that copies
of those permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
156.07, the Flood Plain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
156.40 through
156.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption;
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the State Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of flood plain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
156.41(B)(1) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
156.26(B)(2);
         (b)   Certification required by §
156.41(B)(2) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
156.26(B)(2);
         (c)   Certification required by §
156.41(B)(3) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
156.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
156.41(B)(5) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
§§
156.13 and
156.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations, where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, e.g., where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (e.g., where there appears to
be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Flood
Plain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
156.62(B).
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
156.07, then the Flood Plain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
156.40 through
156.46.
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Flood Plain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with a §
156.41(B)(2) floodproofing certificate.
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Flood Plain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes the building, structure, or
premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Administrator may enter the
building, structure, or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If the structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If the building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the requested
entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care, or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. The notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed;
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Flood Plain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of the act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings; and
      (10)   Expiration of flood plain construction permit. A flood plain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a flood plain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Flood Plain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 156.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions
are required.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding, and, if within Zones AH or AO, so that there are
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide flood waters
around and away from proposed structures.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      (10)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation data have been provided, as set forth in §
156.07, the following provisions are required.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in
accordance with standards of division (B)(3) below:
         (a)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified;
         (b)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Flood Plain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, and
best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced.
401 KAR 4:060 states, as a part of the technical requirements for a state flood
plain permit, the applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining
floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross-sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + five-tenths foot. Cross-sections elevations shall be taken at those
points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base flood plain change. Each cross-section
shall extend across the entire base flood plain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross-sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations; and
         (c)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the City Building Inspection Department
to be properly elevated. The certification and verification shall be provided
to the Flood Plain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (B)(1) above or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities:
         (a)   Be floodproofed below an elevation two feet above the level of
the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         (c)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than two feet above the level of the base flood
elevation;
         (d)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (B)(2) are satisfied. The certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
156.26(B)(1)(c);
         (e)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (B)(4)
below; and/or
         (f)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood water. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin
1-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect; or
            2.   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood water.
      (3)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements
of elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
         (a)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood
waters in both directions.
         (b)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
         (c)   The interior portion of the enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
      (4)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
         (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
            1.   Locations include:
               a.   On individual lots or parcels;
               b.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
               c.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
               d.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
               e.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
               f.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a
site upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the
result of a flood.
            2.   All manufactured homes must:
               a.   Be elevated on a permanent foundation;
               b.   Have their lowest floors elevated no lower than two feet
above the level of the base flood elevation; and
               c.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage
as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that
the manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
         (c)   1.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
               a.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
               b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
               c.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured
homes."
            2.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
      (5)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
156.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
         (a)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
         (b)   If this division (B)(5) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Generally. Located within the special flood hazard areas established
in §
156.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures, shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
      (2)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
156.07.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
156.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply.
      (1)   (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood
depth specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent
grade.
         (b)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if
no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
156.41(B)(2).
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Flood Plain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER "A."
   (A)   Generally. For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas
designated "A," the following provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Structure must be nonhabitable;
      (2)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
      (3)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above
grade, total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor
area, at least two openings required on opposite walls;
      (4)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level two feet above the
base flood elevation;
      (5)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
      (6)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
      (7)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year flood plain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
156.99
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 156.60 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.61 DESIGNATION OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The City Council shall establish an Appeal Board consisting of the Board of
Adjustments.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.62 DUTIES OF APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations made by
the Flood Plain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to the local District Court, as provided in
the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.63 PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon the applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the existing individual owner and future
owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent facility;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and flood
plain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.64 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally. Upon consideration of the factors listed in §
156.63 and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach any
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, the City Council need not grant permission for the
applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes will both
provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
156.05 under PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
156.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Flood Plain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided that the provisions of §
156.63 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.65 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, over the signature of a community official, that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Flood Plain
Administrator in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be recorded
in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
   (C)   The Flood Plain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report any variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.66 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 156.67 NO IMPACT CERTIFICATION WITHIN THE FLOODWAY.
   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped or designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
FLOOD HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
§ 156.75 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt those portions of the Hopkins County Flood
Hazard Mitigation Plan that pertains to the City of Earlington, Kentucky; and
   (B)   Vests the Hopkins County Joint Planning Commission with the
responsibility, authority, and the means to:
      (1)   Inform all concerned parties of this action;
      (2)   Develop an addendum to the Flood Hazard Mitigation Plan if the
county’s situation warrants such an addendum;
      (3)   Oversee the development and incorporation of the Flood Hazard
Mitigation Plan information into existing policies, procedures and community
plans, including but not limited to the local comprehensive plan; and
   (C)   Appoints the Hopkins County Joint Planning Commission to assure that
the Flood Hazard Mitigation Plan be reviewed according to the Plan Maintenance
procedures in Section 3.0 of the plan and that any needed adjustment to the
plan be developed and presented to the city for consideration; and
   (D)   Agrees to consider any other official actions as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the Hopkins County Flood Hazard
Mitigation Plan for the city.
(Res. 2010-2, passed 7-13-2010)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $500 and shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Flood Plain Administrator from
taking any other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-1-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   BOND ISSUES
         
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
IV.   CONVEYANCES
         
V.   FRANCHISES
         
VI.   STREET VACATIONS AND CLOSURES
         
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Annexes two parcels of property, one beginning at an
                        iron pin of the West Kentucky Coal Company, and another
-           - -1958     beginning at a point in the center of the main track of
                        the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, in the southern
                        city limit line
-           4-9-1974    Annexes certain property beginning at a point in the
                        center line of Highway 112
                        Annexes two tracts of land, one beginning at an iron
                        pin in the south right-of-way of Buckner Lane, and
-           1-14-1975   another beginning at an iron pin in the east right-of-
                        way line of South Railroad Street and in the south line
                        of East New Arnold Avenue
                        Annexes two tracts of land, one located approximately
-           1-22-1985   one-half mile southeast of the city, near the Barnsley
                        Cemetery, and another located in the southern edge of
                        the city
                        Annexes a tract of land to the south of U.S. Highway
131         1-27-1999   41-41A connector and east of that property known as the
                        420 tract
                        Annexes a tract of land known as the "J-Lok property,"
2008-05     6-24-2008   commonly identified as being six acres on Hubert Reid
                        Road
Res. 2009-3 12-8-2009   Amending legal description for Ordinance 131
2010-4      1-12-2010   Annexation of territory described in Ordinance 131 to
                        become the territorial boundaries of the city
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
-         9-6-1949    Issues water works revenue bonds
-         6-29-1959   Issues water revenue bonds
-         7-15-1959   Establishes interest rates on water works revenue bonds
5-25-64-3 5-25-1964   Issues water and sewer revenue bonds
3-14-78-3 3-14-1978   Issues water and sewer revenue bonds
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
-           7-8-1975    Contract between the city and the State Bureau of
                        Highways for street improvement
-           11-22-1983  Contract to provide fire protection to the Wesco-
                        Buckneridge Lane Fire District
-           9-25-1984   Contract to provide fire protection to the South 41
                        Fire District
-           1-8-1985    Contract to provide fire protection to the Suthards
                        Fire District
Res. 2002-2 3-12-2002   Lease agreement with Kentucky Area Development
                        Districts Financing Trust
2000-4      7-11-2000   Contract to provide volunteer fire protection to the
                        Earlington Fire Protection District
                        Agreement with the Department for Local Government
Res. -      11-10-2009  (DLG) for energy efficiency and conservation block
                        grant
                        Agreement with the Department for Local Government
Res. -      8-9-2011    (DLG) for the 2010 Kentucky General Assembly House Bill
                        410 project(s)
Res. -      5-8-2011    Authorizing the Mayor to sign a federal reimbursement
                        agreement for a decorative lighting project
                        Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement
Res. -      8-2-2012    between the City of Earlington and the Kentucky
                        Infrastructure Authority to provide a loan for
                        wastewater system improvements
                        Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement
Res. -      8-14-2012   between Hopkins County and the City of Earlington to
                        carry out inspection and plan reviews in compliance
                        with the Kentucky Building Code
 
TABLE IV: CONVEYANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Conveys Madisonville-Hopkinsville Road (U.S. 41A),
-        1-9-1968    beginning at the junction of Main Street and Railroad
                     Street in the city and extending northeast to a point on
                     Rutter Avenue, to the state
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
4-3-34-1   4-3-1934    Franchise granted to Kentucky Utilities Company
4-3-34-2   4-3-1934    Water franchise established
-          8-9-1935    Franchise granted to Kentucky Utilities Company for fire
                       hydrants
-          6-14-1955   Electric franchise established
-          2-22-1960   Franchise granted to Kentucky Utilities Company for
                       electric service
12-17-64-1 12-17-1964  Franchise granted to Madisonville Cablevision Company,
                       Inc., for cable television service
                       Transfer of rights to Madisonville Cablevision Company,
12-17-64-2 1-26-1971   a division of American Television and Communication
                       Corporation
                       Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and
2012-4     10-1-2012   maintenance of electric facilities in the City of
                       Earlington
2022-6     7-12-2022   Creating a non-exclusive franchise for
                       telecommunications for a ten-year duration
 
TABLE VI: STREET VACATIONS AND CLOSURES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Closes a part of Atkinson Street, from Main Street to Loch
106      10-28-1997  Mary, and narrows the city's right-of-way from 100 feet to
                     50 feet
2000-5   7-3-2000    Closes a certain 20-foot wide street or alley, located
                     between Noel Avenue and another 20-foot wide alley
2008-8   2-10-2009   Authorizes acceptance of a public street, alley, or way,
                     and authorizes closure of same
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2004-2   4-13-2004   Changes zoning classification of 68.541 acres from
                     Conservation (RC) to Residential (R2)
                     Changes zoning classigication of 0.23 acres located at 112
2023-3   4-11-2023   North Robinson Street from Single Family Residential-3 (R-
                     3) to General Commercial (C-2)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section           Code Section
6.050                 32.48
6.955 - 6.975         33.03
Ch. 13A               93.02
Ch. 13B               93.06,
                      113.054
15.409                35.26
16.220                72.22
18A.225(2)            111.03
Ch. 31             35.26
41.240(4)             33.05
42.450 - 42.495       33.03
43.050                33.04
Ch. 45A               35.26
Ch. 56             35.26
Ch. 61                32.21
61.168                35.26
61.169                35.26
61.823(2) - (4)       91.15
61.800 - 61.850       34.29
61.870 - 61.884       31.72,
                      35.27
61.870(1)             35.01
61.870(2)             35.01
61.870(3)             35.01
61.870(4)             35.01
61.870(5)             35.01
61.870(6)             35.01
61.870(7)             35.01
61.870(8)             35.01
61.870(10)            35.01
61.872 - 61.884       31.66
61.872(1)-(3)         35.15
61.872(4)             35.16
61.872(5)             35.17
61.872(6)             35.18
61.874(1)             35.22
61.874(2)             35.22
61.874(3)             35.23
61.874(4)             35.23
61.874(5)             35.24
61.874(6)             35.25
61.878                35.01
61.878(1)             35.26
61.878(2)             35.26
61.878(3)             35.26
61.878(4)             35.26
61.878(5)             35.26
61.878(6)             35.26
61.880                35.19
61.880(1)             35.26
61.884                35.21
62.060                31.01
65.120                Ch. 72
65.8801 et seq.       92.05
                      34.31,
65.8801 - 65.8839     34.32,
                      92.02,
                      92.03
65.8805               34.25,
                      34.33
65.8808(1)            34.26
65.8815(5)            34.29
65.8825               34.30,
                      34.32
65.8825(4)            34.32
65.8835(1)            34.34
65.8835(1)(c)         34.34
65.8836               34.34
                      34.31,
65.8840               34.32,
                      92.05
65.8840(2)            34.31
66.660                91.06
78.510(21)            36.01
78.530                36.01
82.605 - 82.640       72.22
83A.010(5)            10.02
83A.010(6)            10.02
83A.010(8)            10.02
83A.030(1)            30.02
83A.040(1)            31.21
83A.040(2)(a),(6)     31.21
83A.040(2)(d)         31.21
83A.040(2)(c)         31.21
83A.040(3)            31.21
83A.040(4)            32.01
83A.040(5)            32.02
83A.040(6)            32.02
83A.040(7)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(8)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(9)            31.03
83A.045               31.20
83A.050               31.20,
                      32.01
83A.060               31.73
83A.060(1)            32.35
83A.060(2)            32.36
83A.060(3)            32.37
83A.060(4)            32.38
83A.060(5)            32.40
83A.060(6)            32.22
83A.060(7)            32.38
83A.060(8)            32.41,
                      32.42
83A.060(9)            32.43
83A.060(10)           32.44
83A.060(11)           32.45
83A.060(12)           32.46
83A.060(13)           32.46
83A.060(14)           32.47
83A.060(15)           32.48
83A.070               31.02
83A.075               31.02
83A.080               31.65,
                      34.11
83A.080(1),(2)        31.35
83A.080(2)            31.03
83A.080(3),(4)        31.20
83A.085               31.36
83A.130(1)            30.01
83A.130(2)            30.02
83A.130(3)            31.21
83A.130(4)            31.21
83A.130(5)            32.20
83A.130(6)            32.39
83A.130(7)            31.21
83A.130(8)            31.21
83A.130(9)            31.21
83A.130(10)           31.21
83A.130(11)           32.03,
                      32.21
83A.130(12)           32.03
83A.130(13)           32.03
83A.170               31.20
83A.175               32.02
91A.010               33.01
91A.010(8)            10.02
91A.020               33.02
91A.030               33.03
91A.040               33.04
91A.050               33.03
91A.060               33.05
91A.200               33.16
91A.210               33.15
91A.220               33.16
91A.230               33.17
91A.240               33.18
91A.250               33.19
91A.260               33.20
91A.270               33.21
91A.280               33.22
91A.290               33.23
Ch. 100               156.01
Ch. 107               33.16
118.305(7)            32.02
131.010(6)            111.04
131.190               35.26
136.120               112.03
136.602               112.03
Ch. 151               156.05
151.250               156.05,
                      156.06
Ch. 154               35.26
174.100               91.15
174.100(1)            91.16
174.100(2)            91.17
174.100(3)            91.18
174.100(4)            91.19
174.100(5)            91.20
177.910 - 177.950     92.10
178.290               91.06
186.020               72.22
186.050(3)            74.08
186A.190              72.22
189.010               74.01
189.050(2)            74.10
189.050(3)            74.11
189.090(4)            74.10
189.130               74.13
189.160               74.17
189.221               74.04 -
                      74.07
189.222(1)            74.04 -
                      74.07
189.280(3)            74.04 -
                      74.07
189.338               70.15
189.390(4)            71.06
                      71.99,
189.394               74.99;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
189.470(1)            71.05
189.580               71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a - e. 35.01
189.700               71.40
189.990               74.99
189.990(1)            71.99
189.990(2)(a)         74.99;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II
189A.010              71.99
189A.010(1)           71.28
190.010(8)            92.10
227.550               92.10
227.700               93.01
227.700 - 227.750     93.01,
                      93.06
                      93.01,
227.702               93.02,
                      93.03
227.702(1)            93.03
227.704               93.01
227.706               93.01
227.708               93.01
227.710               93.02
227.715               93.02,
                      93.03
227.715(7)-(9)        93.03
227.720               93.04
227.730               93.04
227.750               93.06
227.990(4)            93.99
Ch. 241               113.003,
                      113.040
241.010               113.002
241.060               113.023
241.060(2)            113.043
241.065               113.043
241.160               113.020
241.170               113.020
241.190               113.044
241.200               113.058
Ch. 242               113.003,
                      113.040
242.1295              113.044
242.185               113.044
242.185(4)            113.041,
                      113.044
Ch. 243               112.03
                      113.041,
243.070               113.044,
                      113.046
243.090               113.050
243.220               113.054
243.260               113.042
243.270               113.045
243.290               113.042
243.380               113.053
243.390               113.053
243.440               113.056
243.450               113.058
243.500               113.058
243.550               113.054,
                      113.058
243.560               113.054
243.610               113.006
243.620               113.056
243.630               113.051
243.640               113.051
243.650               113.051
243.660               113.051
Ch. 244               113.003,
                      113.040
244.083               113.076
244.130               113.074
244.150               113.025
257.100               90.06
257.100(4)            90.01
Ch. 258               90.15
Ch. 281               72.21
281.010               92.10
281.605(12)           72.22
Ch. 350               156.05
376.275(1)            72.22
376.275(2) - (5)      72.22
                      33.03,
Ch. 424               33.19,
                      33.20
424.120               33.04
424.220               33.04
424.220(6)(b)         33.04
436.600               90.04,
                      90.99
446.010(1)            10.02
446.010(2)            10.02
446.010(9)            10.02
446.010(10)           10.02
446.010(12)           10.02
446.010(13)           10.02
446.010(14)           10.02
446.010(15)           10.02
446.010(17)           10.02
446.010(18)           10.02
446.010(23)           10.02
446.010(25)           10.02
446.010(26)           10.02
446.010(27)           10.02
446.010(28)           10.02
446.010(30)           10.02
446.010(31)           10.02
446.010(33)           10.02
446.010(37)           10.02
446.010(39)           10.02
446.010(43)           10.02
446.010(46)           10.02
446.010(47)           10.02
446.010(49)           10.02
446.010(55)           10.02
446.020(1)            10.03
446.020(2)            10.03
446.030(2)            10.04
446.050               10.05
446.060               10.06
446.080(1)            10.03
446.080(3)            10.03
446.080(4)            10.03
446.090               10.07
446.100               10.08
446.110               10.09
446.140               10.01
512.020 - 512.040     50.001
525.125               90.03
525.130               90.03,
                      90.99
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
–         1-14-1975   51.03,
                        51.04
00-1        - -         130.02
2002-2      3-12-2002   T.S.O. III
–         11-10-2009  T.S.O. III
2009-3      12-8-2009   T.S.O. I
Res. 2010-2 7-13-2010   156.75
–         8-9-2011    T.S.O. III
–         5-8-2012    T.S.O. III
–         8-2-2012    T.S.O. III
–         8-14-2012   T.S.O. III
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
                       153.01 -
–        --          153.12,
                       153.99
4-3-34-1   4-3-1934    T.S.O. V
4-3-34-2   4-3-1934    T.S.O. V
–        8-9-1935    T.S.O. V
                       71.05,
                       71.28,
                       74.01 -
                       74.03,
–        8-4-1942    74.07,
                       74.09 -
                       74.18,
                       74.20,
                       74.21
                       Ch. 75, Schs. I,
–        1-7-1947    II;
                       Ch. 76, Schs. I,
                       II
1-7-47-1   1-7-1947    74.08,
                       74.19
                       70.17,
                       71.02,
                       71.06,
1-7-47-2   1-7-1947    72.01 -
                       72.03,
                       72.99;
                       Ch. 75, Sch. III
1-7-47-3   1-7-1947    70.03
–        9-6-1949    T.S.O. II
–        6-14-1955   T.S.O. V
–        - -1958     T.S.O. I
–        6-29-1959   T.S.O. II
–        7-15-1959   T.S.O. II
–        2-22-1960   T.S.O. V
5-25-64-2  5-25-1964   50.020 -
                       50.031
5-25-64-3  5-25-1964   T.S.O. II
–        8-20-1964   155.01
12-17-64-1 12-17-1964  T.S.O. V
–        3-25-1967   155.01
–        4-11-1967   150.01 -
                       150.04
–        1-9-1968    T.S.O. IV
–        5-29-1969   90.15
                       51.01 -
1          6-9-1970    51.07,
                       51.99
12-17-64-2 1-26-1971   T.S.O. V
–        4-9-1974    T.S.O. I
–        1-14-1975   T.S.O. I
–        7-8-1975    T.S.O. III
                       95.01,
11-8-77-2  11-8-1977   95.02,
                       95.99
–        11-22-1977  154.01
3-14-78-1  3-14-1978   50.080 -
                       50.083
3-14-78-2  3-14-1978   50.045 -
                       50.064
3-14-78-3  3-14-1978   T.S.O. II
–        8-22-1978   150.03
–        7-10-1979   155.01
                       90.25 -
–        --1982      90.27,
                       90.99
–        11-22-1983  T.S.O. III
–        11-23-1982  33.06
–        9-25-1984   T.S.O. III
–        1-8-1985    T.S.O. III
–        1-22-1985   T.S.O. I
                       151.01 -
–        6-11-1985   151.03,
                       151.99
                       51.01 -
–        11-12-1985  51.07,
                       51.99
–        2-25-1986   51.02,
                       51.06
–        8-26-1986   95.03,
                       95.99
–        9-9-1986    130.01,
                       130.99
–        12-15-1987  32.21
–        5-10-1988   32.21
–        6-28-1988   91.07
                       31.03,
                       31.21,
–        12-13-1988  31.35,
                       34.02,
                       34.11
                       31.35,
–        12-27-1988  31.50,
                       34.02,
                       34.11
                       31.65 -
–        12-13-1994  31.73,
                       31.99
106        10-28-1997  T.S.O. VI
131        1-27-1999   T.S.O. I
50.021     3-4-1999    50.021
31.46      6-8-1999    36.01
1999-3     7-22-1999   50.080
2000-1     3-14-2000   111.01 -
                       111.05
2000-5     7-3-2000    T.S.O. VI
2000-4     7-11-2000   T.S.O. III
2000-7     10-26-2000  51.03
2003-1     3-11-2003   50.045,
                       50.051
2003-2     8-26-2003   72.03
2004-1     4-13-2004   150.17,
                       150.99
2004-2     4-13-2004   T.S.O. VII
2004-3     8-10-2004   150.16,
                       150.99
2004-4     11-23-2004  31.20
2005-2     5-10-2005   50.080
2006-4     10-24-2006  130.03,
                       130.99
2007-2     2-27-2007   32.21
2007-1     5-24-2007   50.051
2007-5     7-3-2007    50.080
2007-6     7-3-2007    51.03
                       90.01,
                       90.07 -
2007-8     7-17-2007   90.09,
                       90.17,
                       90.99
2008-1     2-14-2008   150.15
                       156.01 -
                       156.13,
                       156.25 -
                       156.27,
2008-2     4-1-2008    156.40 -
                       156.46,
                       156.60 -
                       156.67,
                       156.99
2008-4     6-10-2008   50.021,
                       50.999
2008-05    6-24-2008   T.S.O. I
                       112.01 -
2008-07    11-13-2008  112.15,
                       112.99
2008-8     2-10-2009   T.S.O. VI
2010-1     1-12-2010   36.01
2010-2     1-12-2010   152.01
2010-3     1-12-2010   155.01
2010-4     1-12-2010   T.S.O. I
2010-5     3-9-2010    112.03
2010-7     3-9-2010    50.080
                       50.059,
2010-8     3-9-2010    50.080 -
                       50.083,
                       91.99
2010-9     8-10-2010   Adopting Ordinance
2011-2     7-5-2011    153.05
                       113.001 -
                       113.006,
                       113.020 -
                       113.025,
                       113.040 -
2011-1     4-28-2011   113.058,
                       113.070 -
                       113.078,
                       113.090 -
                       113.094,
                       113.999
2012-1     3-26-2012   Adopting Ordinance
2012-4     10-1-2012   T.S.O. V
2012-5     12-11-2012  50.050
2013-1     3-12-2013   Adopting Ordinance
2013-2     4-11-2013   31.65,
                       31.66
                       92.01 -
2017-1     6-20-2017   92.25,
                       92.99
2017-6     8-8-2017    92.26
2020-3     11-19-2020  50.051
2021-1     3-23-2021   32.21
–        5-24-2021   50.080
2021-3     6-21-2021   34.25 -
                       34.34
2022-2     4-12-2022   51.03
2022-4     4-18-2022   155.01
2022-6     7-12-2022   T.S.O. V
2022-7     8-18-2022   113.090
50.081     2-14-2023   50.080
2023-1     2-14-2023   32.21
2023-2     3-14-2023   113.074
2023-3     4-11-2023   T.S.O. VII
2023-5     5-9-2023    155.01
24-06      6-11-2024   50.080
                      
 
