FLEMINGSBURG, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-22 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 7-24-21, passed 7-8-24; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
COUNCILMEMBERS
COUNCILMEMBER        Danny Carpenter
COUNCILMEMBER        Alan Davis
COUNCILMEMBER        Angie Graham
COUNCILMEMBER        Terry McKee
COUNCILMEMBER        Meredith Story
COUNCILMEMBER        Marty Voiers
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                Van Alexander
CITY CLERK/TREASURER Katie Adamson
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Flemingsburg Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   “AND.” May be read “OR,” and “OR” may be read “AND,” if the sense requires
it.
   “ANIMAL.” Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code
shall denote the City of Flemingsburg irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL.” The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Fleming County, Kentucky.
   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent or employee.
   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   “LIVESTOCK.” Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of a city legislative body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or
is an appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30)
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years in which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.” A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with
matters of a special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large
extent a municipal order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution
is simply an expression of the opinion, will or policy of the legislative body
on some matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offense shall be a violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250
for each offense or violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   CITY COUNCIL
   
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
   
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
   
36.   TAXATION
   
37.   RESERVED
   
38.   ETHICS CODE
   
39.   RACIAL PROFILING POLICY
   
40.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. An ordinance
amending the number of legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030 (1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.361   Assistant City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.37   Street and Sanitation Superintendent
   
31.38   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.39   Building Inspector
City Employees
   
31.50   City Attorney
   
31.51   Police Chief
City Officials Training Program
   
31.60     Definitions
   
31.61    Adoption of a city officials training program; application
   
31.62    Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
31.63    Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
31.64    Administration of program
   
31.65    Status of incentive payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of                      , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as
established by section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A) City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. Pursuant to KRS 83A.070(1), an elected officer’s compensation shall
not be changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)    In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
         (a)    An elected official of the city who is subject to the state
merit system regulations shall be compensated on a per diem basis.
         (b)    An elected official of the city who is not subject to the state
merit system regulations shall be compensated on a salaried basis.
(Ord. 12-93-4, passed 12-13-93)
_____________________
Statutory reference:
   Incompatible offices, see Ky. Const. 6, 165, KRS 61.080
         (c)   Any elected councilperson of the city who is subject to
subsection (A)(2)(a) of this section shall be compensated in the amount of
$75.00 per diem. The elected Mayor, who is subject to the same subsection (A)
(2)(a) of this section, shall be compensated in the amount of $104.00 per diem.
         (d)   For the purposes of this section, “per diem” shall be defined as
compensation earned each day by an elected official of the city subject to
division (A)(2)(a) of this section who actually attends any meeting,
conference, convention, seminar, hearing or other activity or function as
required or as deemed beneficial to the city, by the Mayor or City Council.
Attendance at any regular or special City Council meeting, committee meeting or
ancillary city board meeting shall be presumed to be beneficial to the city.
Also presumed to be beneficial to the city is the attendance by elected city
officials of seminars, training workshops, conventions and other municipal
issues meetings including, but not limited to, activities sponsored by agencies
such as the Kentucky League of Cities, Department of Local Government, and
Buffalo Trace Area Development District.
         (e)   In no event shall the total per diem compensation of an elected
official subject to division (A)(2)(a) of this section exceed the total annual
compensation amount set forth in sections
31.21(E) and
32.01(C) for the applicable office.
   (B)    The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.070(1), an elected officer’s compensation shall
not be changed after the election or during the respective term(s) of offices
set forth herein.
   (D)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (E)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Ord. 5-96-1, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 5-98-1, passed 5-4-98; Am. Ord. 4-02-1,
passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 2-04-1, passed 2-23-04; Am. Ord. 4-06-1, passed 4-10-
06; Am. Ord. 6-08-1, passed 6-9-08; Am. Ord. 4-10-1 passed 4-12-10; Am. Ord. 4-
12-1, passed 4-9-12; Am. Ord. 4-14-2, passed 4-28-14; Am. Ord. 4-18-1, passed
4-30-18; Am. Ord. 6-20-1, passed 5-11-20; Am. Ord. 5-22-1, passed 5-9-22)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, Mayor, see
31.21 (E)
   Compensation, Council, see
32.01 (C)
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(6)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All elections of city officers shall henceforth be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS 83A.045, 83A.165, 83A.170,
and 83A.175 (or such successor or replacement sections of the statutes as may
be adopted by the State Legislature in the future).
(Ord. 11-88-2, passed 11-21-88)
      (2)   The city does hereby forego the conducting of a nonpartisan primary
election as allowed and provided by KRS 83A.045 (2)(b)(1) (or such successor or
replacement section of the statute as may be adopted by the State Legislature
in the future), and all candidates for city offices shall file nomination
papers with the Fleming county clerk no earlier than the first Wednesday after
the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office
will appear on the ballot and no later than the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in June before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular
election for the office. Signatures for nomination papers shall not be affixed
on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after the first Monday
in November of the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on
the ballot.
(KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(1))
   (B)   This section shall be effective beginning with elections to be held in
the calendar year 1989, and shall not be changed sooner than five (5) years
from the date of final passage thereof.
(Ord. 11-88-2, passed 11-21-88)
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (3),(4), and (5)
   Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one (1) year prior to his or her
election. His or her term of office begins on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for four (4) years and until his or
her successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in
response to a vacancy and serves less than four (4) calendar years, then that
period of service shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of
office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the
Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person
who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1),(2),(5))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040 (2)(c)
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040 (3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040 (7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040 (8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of the city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statue, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D) (5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation for the elected office of Mayor for the
four-year term of office commencing on January 1, 2023, shall be $32,000 per
year.
(Ord. 4-93-2, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 5-98-1, passed 5-4-98; Am. Ord. 4-02-1,
passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 4-06-1, passed 4-10-06; Am. Ord. 4-10-1, 4-12-10; Am.
Ord. 4-18-1, passed 4-30-18; Am. Ord. 5-22-1, passed 5-9-22)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
Cross Reference:
   Compensation, see
31.02
   Procedure for electing presiding officer, see
32.23.
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Street and Sanitation Superintendent.
      (3)   Utilities Superintendent.
      (4)   Building Inspector.
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safeguarding of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk-Treasurer;
            2.   City Manager or Administrator;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Human Resources Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief;
            7.   Public Works Director;
            8.   Risk Manager;
            9.   Information Technology Manager;
            10.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            11.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(KRS 83A.085)
         (d)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk-Treasurer by statute or other ordinances of the city.
(KRS 83A.085)
      (5)   Keep journal of all city cash receipts and disbursements;
      (6)   Ensure proper and timely payment of all city debts to include
accounts payable and bond/loan obligations;
      (7)   Complete reconciliation of cash balances form bank to city books on
monthly basis; and
      (8)   Manage all city cash investments.
   (D)   The oath of office to be taken by the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be
that set forth in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (E)   Before entry into the duties of this office the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall execute a public official bond to the city with a corporate surety
authorized and qualified to become surety on bond in this state, in the amount
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
   (F)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be subject to and covered by all the
personnel rules and regulations of the city as contained in the Employee
Manual, including compensation, benefits, vacations, and disciplinary action.
   (G)   Compensation for the City Clerk-Treasurer is six hundred sixty-six
dollars and thirty-three cents ($666.33) per week.
(Ord. 3-83-1, passed 3-7-83; Am. Ord. 8-00-1, passed 8-9-00)
§ 31.361 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The position of Assistant City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the position are included in the
job description attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 4-08-2 and fully
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (C)   Compensation for the position is Grade 35 with a low of $12.36 per
hour and a high of $18.55 per hour. Such salary may be changed in the future by
overall increases granted all city employees by action of the City Council, or
by merit increase approved by City Council.
(Ord. 4-08-2, passed 4-29-08)
§ 31.37 STREET AND SANITATION SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Street and Sanitation
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Street and Sanitation Superintendent shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him by statute, this chapter, and such other
municipal responsibilities delegated from time to time by the City Council or
the Mayor. He shall be primarily responsible for the operation and maintenance
of all public ways within the city, refuse collection and disposal, and for the
general cleanliness and repair of all city public ways and properties.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Street and Sanitation
Superintendent unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.38 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent is responsible for the proper maintenance
of the physical plant of the city, including but not limited to all gas, water,
and sewer lines and the sewage and water treatment plants. The Utilities
Superintendent is responsible for the supervision of all maintenance or
construction of the physical plan, ensuring compliance with all state and
federal regulations for water and sewage treatment, and shall perform whatever
other duties and/or functions may at times be seen as necessary for the proper
operation of the city.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Utilities Superintendent
unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.39 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of Building Inspector.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Building Inspector shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Enforcement of the provisions of
Chapter 150 Building Regulations.
      (2)   Direct the preparation of and maintain the necessary records and
files.
      (3)   Conduct the necessary correspondence, requisition supplies, and
recommend the purchase of necessary equipment.
      (4)   Meet with and answer questions for the public, if needed.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Building Inspector unless
the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.50 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be employed by the city on a retainer basis,
and shall serve as the general law officer and legal counsel of the city. He
shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. He
shall be chosen solely on the basis of his legal qualifications, with special
emphasis on actual experience in or knowledge of Kentucky municipal and
administrative law. The City Attorney may also engage in the private practice
of law and may hold other public or private employment.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall advise the Mayor, the City Council, and all
other city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their
municipal duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for and
defend the city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which
the city is a party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and in
behalf of the city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights
or interests of the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions,
orders, and legal instruments as the Mayor or City Council may direct, and
generally shall attend to all legal business of the city.
§ 31.51 POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see §
35.61.
CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM
§ 31.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ADMINISTRATOR.” The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training
Center.
   “EXCESS HOURS.” Credit hours earned beyond fifteen (15) during a single
calendar year.
   “QUALIFYING COURSE.” Any training, seminar, education, or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and has been approved by the
administrator.
   “TRAINING UNIT.” Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
§ 31.61 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, codified as
KRS Ch. 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a city officials training
program to make available incentive payments as specified by the subchapter to
the elected city officials, including the Mayor and all members of City
Council, for obtaining education and training as required under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
§ 31.62 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the city officials
training program shall receive incentive payments of two hundred fifty dollars
($250) for completion of each training unit during his or her continuous
service as a city official within the city. The city official shall only
receive training incentive payments for a maximum of four (4) training units.
The city official shall not be awarded more than one (1) training unit per
calendar year.
   (B)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive payment
for four (4) training units in each calendar year following the fourth year,
provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each subsequent
calendar year.
   (C)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
   (D)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall be
permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten (10) hours to apply to the earning
of a training unit in the following calendar year.
   (E)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within
sixty (60) days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
§ 31.63 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course, if proper application is made to the Mayor (or other
designated official responsible for budget administration). Alternatively, and
subject to the constraints and appropriations established by the city’s annual
budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official for the cost of
attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon presentation of proof
to the Mayor (or other designated official responsible for budget
administration) that the official has received credit for the course.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
§ 31.64 ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city officials training program shall be administered by the
Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center, which shall be
responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this
subchapter, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and shall
notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the number of
training units earned by a city official during his or her continuous service
as a city official within the city.
   (B)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying for
credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city government.
In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying courses by the
administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory duties of
cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal finance
and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this subchapter. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within thirty (30) days of
the close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to
each participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
§ 31.65 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Ch. 337,
creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under KRS
Ch. 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum compensation or
modification of compensation under KRS Ch. 83A, and may be repealed or modified
by the city at any time.
   (B)   The training incentive payment amount established in this subchapter
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 1-19-2, passed 1-14-19)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules and Procedures
   
32.20   Mayor as presiding officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
   
32.23   Procedures for electing presiding officer
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council shall
be a resident of the city for not less than one (1) year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office. (KRS 83A.040(3)(4))
   (C) Compensation. The compensation for the elected office of City
Councilperson for the two-year term of office commencing January 1, 2023, shall
be $4,200 per year. (Ord. 5-87-1, passed 5-4-87; Am. Ord. 5-91-4, passed 5-6-
91; Am. Ord. 4-93-2, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 5-96-1, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord.
5-98-1, passed 5-4-98; Am. Ord. 4-02-1, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 2-04-1, passed
2-23-04; Am. Ord. 4- 06-01, passed 4-10-06; Am. Ord. 6-08-1, passed 6-9-08; Am.
Ord. 4-10-1, passed 4-12-10; Am. Ord. 4-18-1, passed 4-30-18; Am. Ord. 6-20-1,
passed 5-11-20; Am. Ord. 5-22-1, passed 5-9-22)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see
31.02
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular meeting of the city
legislative body. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040 (8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (5))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130 (11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
   Procedure for electing Presiding Officer, see §
32.23
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the
second Monday of each month, except in months when the second Monday is a legal
holiday. When the second Monday of a month is a legal holiday, then the regular
meeting of the Council will be held on the Tuesday immediately following the
second Monday.
      (2)   The regular time for the regular meeting of the Council shall be at
6:00 p.m. local time (either Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, in
accordance with duly legislated time zones).
      (3)   The place of the regular meeting shall be the Council chambers at
the City Annex Building, with a postal address of 150 W. Electric Avenue.
(Ord. 8-86-2, passed 8-4-86; Am. Ord. 6-01-1, passed 6-4-01; Am. Ord. 1-19-3,
passed 2-11-19)
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
      (2)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (C)   Minutes. The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
§ 32.23 PROCEDURE FOR ELECTING PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.130 (5), the City Council shall
elect at its first regular meeting in January of each year, or as soon
thereafter as business permits, a Mayor Pro Tem to preside at its meetings in
the absence of the Mayor. The Mayor Pro Tem shall be elected by a majority vote
of the entire City Council.
   (B)   The term office for the Mayor Pro Tem shall be for the calendar year
and until a successor is elected. The Mayor Pro Tem shall be subject to removal
by a majority vote of City Council, exclusive of the vote of the member serving
as Mayor Pro Tem.
   (C)   Whenever there is a quorum of the City Council at any regularly
scheduled meeting or at any specially called meeting which has been legally
called and for which the Mayor and City Council have been duly notified, the
Mayor Pro Tem shall preside at the meeting in the absence of the Mayor. The
sole function of the Mayor Pro Tem shall be to preside at City Council meetings
in the absence of the Mayor.
(Ord. 3-93-1, passed 3-1-93)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Flemingsburg."
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   all ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance
and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   The publication requirements for ordinances, including all bond and
zoning ordinances, may be satisfied by publication in full or in summary as
designated by Council.
   (C)   The requirements for summary publication may be satisfied by
publication of the title, a brief narrative setting forth the main points of
the ordinance in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear
and understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance, and the full text of
each section that imposes taxes or fees prepared or certified by an attorney
licensed to practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may specify by ordinance additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid
provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.035   Annual budget proposal
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.25   Policy
   
33.26   Scope
   
33.27   Objectives
   
33.28   Authority
   
33.29   Prudent person rule
   
33.30   Authorized investment
   
33.31   Diversification of investments
   
33.32   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.33   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.34   Collateral
   
33.35   Reporting
   
33.36   Audit
   
33.37   Policy adoption
Purchasing and Procurement
   
33.45   Adoption of Kentucky Model Procurement Code
   
33.46   Authorization of contracts
   
33.47   Selection of vendors and contracts
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91a.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91a.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91a.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee thereof, may
bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at that time
appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts, agreements, and
obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing appropriations are void;
nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the balance of
any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91a.030)
§ 33.035 ANNUAL BUDGET PROPOSAL.
   (A)   In accordance with KRS 91a.030, the following standards shall apply to
the form and detail in which the annual budget proposal of the City is to be
prepared.
   (B)   Resources to equal or exceed expenditures.
      The annual budget proposal shall detail year-end fund balances and the
raising of revenue from all sources, including grants and transfers, and the
spending of money for specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives
of the city, including all principal and interest due on debt, for the budget
year. The total of fund balances and anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed
the total of proposed expenditures.
   (C)   Consistent with accounting system.
      The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form, to
the extent practical, with the accounting system of the City.
   (D)   Contents of budget proposal.
      The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and financial
plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
      (1)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91a.030(7); and
      (2)   A budget summary, as specified in subsection (E), supported by:
         (a)    An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
subsection (F) below;
         (b)    an estimate of all anticipated revenues of the City compared to
previous years, as specified in subsection (G) below;
         (c)    Proposed expenditures compared to previous years, as specified
in subsection (H) below; and
         (d)    An estimate of anticipated interfund transfers, as specified in
subsection (I) below.
   (E)   Budget summary
      At the beginning of the annual budget proposal, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the City, in such a manner as to present a simple
and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
   (F)   Fund balance carry-forward.
      Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to the
amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning of
the budget year.
   (G)   Comparative revenues
      In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated revenue
there shall be placed:
      (1)   The amount of each item actually received during the next preceding
fiscal year;
      (2)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the time
of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
      (3)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
   (H)   Comparative expenditures
      In parallel columns, opposite the several items of proposed expenditures,
there shall be placed:
      (1)   The amount of each item actually expended during the next preceding
fiscal year;
      (2)   The total of the amount of each item actually expended to the time
of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
      (3)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
   (I)   Interfund transfers
      Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
(Ord. 3-93-2, passed 3-1-93)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the auditing requirements set forth in division (A), if the
city for the fiscal year in question receives and expends, from all sources,
and for all purposes, less than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($150,000), and has no long-term debt, whether general obligation or revenue
debt, the city shall not be required to audit each fund of the city for that
particular fiscal year. In addition, the city shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220, and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for informational purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four (4) consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one (1)
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within (30) days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
(6) column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (C)   If the city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (D)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) and (B) to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (E)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2) The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3) All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (F)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (G)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (H)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall,
for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a
civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property
within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for
the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (I)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent the city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with divisions (A) or (B) of this section, the city may submit a written
request for an extension of time to the Department for Local Government on a
form prescribed by the Department. The Department shall approve the request if
it is submitted on or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of
the Department the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond the
control of the city. Extensions granted under this division shall not exceed
nine (9) months from the original due date of the audit or financial statement.
If the Department approves an extension for the city and the city fails to
complete and submit the required audit or financial statement in compliance
with that extended deadline, then the provisions of division (J) of this
section shall apply.
   (J)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department as required in divisions (A), (B), or (I) of this section,
the Department shall notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the
city has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and that
any funds in the possession of any agency, entity, or branch of state
government shall be withheld from the city until further notice. The Department
shall immediately notify the Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A), (B), and (I) of this section for all prior
fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and the Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of payments to the
city, including any funds that were withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (K)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination,
as well as reasonable associated costs, including, but not limited to, travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4) deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91a.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91a.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91a.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The cost may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91a.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91a.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91a.290)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security of
principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all state statutes and regulations governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.26 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual
financial report and include all moneys in the following funds:
      (1)   General fund;
      (2)   CBDG funds;
      (3)   Debt service funds;
      (4)   Sinking funds;
      (5)   Reserve account funds;
      (6)   Utility depreciation funds;
      (7)   Fire engine fund;
      (8)   Water works fund;
      (9)   Waste water treatment fund; and
      (10)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
   (B)   Financial assets of the entity held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city's primary investment objectives.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.27 OBJECTIVES.
   The city's primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city's
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city's investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city's investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city's investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.28 AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city's investment program is hereby
delegated to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the
authority, subject to the disapproval of the City Council, to establish
additional specific written procedures for the operation of the investment
program which are consistent with the investment policy. The procedures shall
include explicit delegation of authority, if any, to persons responsible for
investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures
established by the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be
ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials and
employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control losses of
public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions by
officers and employees. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain all records
related to the city's investment program.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.29 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the City Clerk-Treasurer in the performance of his
duties as manager of the city's funds shall be evaluated using the "prudent
person" standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under
prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer acting in accordance with written procedures
and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for
an individual security's performance, provided that deviations from
expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the City Council and
appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.30 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only in the
following types of investments instruments:
   (A)   Authorized investment instruments.
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase is taken
either directly or through an authorized custodian.
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
         (a)    United States Treasury;
         (b)    Export-Import Bank of the United States;
         (c)    Farmers Home Administration;
         (d)    Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
         (e)    Merchant Marine bonds.
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to:
         (a)    Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)    Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)    Bank for Cooperatives;
         (d)    Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
         (e)    Federal Land Banks;
         (f)    Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)    Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)    Tennessee Valley Authority.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by
section 41.240(4) of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   Limitations on Investment Transactions. With regard to the investments
authorized in this section, the following limitations shall apply:
      (1)   No investment shall be purchased for the city on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
      (2)   No investments shall be made that are prohibited by any existing
revenue bond indebtedness agreement with respect to any fund or fund source
subject to an existing revenue bond indebtedness agreement.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.31 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price charges or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city's investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city's funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than one (1) year from the date of purchase. However, the city
may collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not
to exceed one (1) year to maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities
exceeding one (1) five year, if maturity of the investments is made to coincide
as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.32 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a list of financial
institutions authorized to provide investment services to the city. In
addition, a list shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers
selected by creditworthiness, who maintain an office in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Clerk-Treasurer with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquiries posed by the City Clerk-Treasurer or the governing body,
including the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements.
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial condition.
      (3)   Written memorandum of Agreement for the deposit of public funds or
trading resolution, as appropriate.
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration.
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the City
Clerk-Treasurer to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of city
funds if the city funds on deposit at any time will exceed ten percent (10%) of
the institution's capital stock and surplus.
   (D)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall evaluate the financial capacity and
creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/dealers prior to the
placement of the city's funds. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall conduct an annual
review of the financial condition and registrations of financial institutions
and broker/dealers and, based on the review, make any recommendations regarding
investment policy or program changes determined to be necessary.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.33 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets shall
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City
Clerk-Treasurer and any other officers or employees of the city authorized to
engage in investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by
the governing body. Collateralized securities, such as repurchase agreements
shall be purchased using the delivery vs. payment procedure. Money market
mutual funds used for investments must provide for independent custodians of
their portfolios and delivery vs. payment on their portfolio securities. The
safekeeping procedures utilized in the Mayor's investment program shall be
reviewed annually by the independent auditor.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.34 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and investments
maintained in any financial institution named as a depository be
collateralized. In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level of
security for all funds, the collateralized level shall be one hundred percent
(100%) of the market value of principal, plus accrued interest. Collateral
shall be limited to the types of instruments authorized as collateral for state
funds in KRS 41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Clerk-Treasurer. The right of collateral substitution
is hereby granted.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.35 REPORTING.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and submit to the City Council
an annual report regarding the status of the city's investment program. As to
each investment, the report shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited;
      (2)   Type of investment;
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable;
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis;
      (5)   Purchase date, purchase price and maturity date; and
      (6)   Current market value of the investment.
   (B)   In addition, the report shall explain the quarter's total investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations.
   (C)   The annual report shall also summarize recent market conditions,
economic developments and anticipated investment conditions and indicate any
areas of policy concern and suggested revisions of investment strategies.
Copies of the report shall be submitted to each member of the City Council and
the chief executive officer of the city.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.36 AUDIT.
   In connection with the audit of city funds conducted by an independent
certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of the city's
investment program, including internal controls and procedures, and the results
of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the city's
audit.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
§ 33.37 POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city's investment policy shall be reviewed annually and revised,
as appropriate. Any amendments to this policy must be made by ordinance of the
City Council.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the monies so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The City Clerk-
Treasurer may take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing portfolio
to the provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature liquidation of
any current investment.
(Ord. 12-94-1, passed 12-19-94)
PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT
§ 33.45 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY MODEL PROCUREMENT CODE.
   The provisions of KRS 45A.345 to 45A.460, and all future amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted for the City of Flemingsburg.
(Ord. 10-09-1, passed 10-12-09)
§ 33.46 AUTHORIZATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Every contract, change or amendment thereto, shall be authorized or
approved by the legislative body before the chief executive officer executes
it.
   (B)   Every contract of the city, except small purchases, shall be approved
by the City Council as to form and legality.
   (C)   The Mayor is responsible for administration of the procurement
function.
      (1)   The Mayor may delegate to a purchasing officer and/or to department
heads such authority as may be appropriate.
      (2)   Any delegation of purchasing authority shall be in writing.
      (3)   No delegation shall be made to the purchasing officer of the city,
or a department head of the city, to award any contract in excess of $300.00.
This limit shall apply to all purchases of a non-recurring nature.
   (D)   No contract shall be awarded for an amount, which exceeds the sum
authorized by the budget for the procurement.
(Ord. 10-09-1, passed 10-12-09) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.47 SELECTION OF VENDORS AND CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Procedures for sealed bidding.
      (1)   The agency, department or person requiring supplies, services or
construction shall submit to the Mayor a request containing specifications and
quantities desired.
      (2)   The Mayor shall place an advertisement in the newspaper of largest
paid circulation in the county at least once not less than seven nor more than
21 days before bid opening. The advertisement shall include:
         (a)   The time and place the bids will be opened;
         (b)   The time and place where specifications may be obtained; and
         (c)   The basis for bid award (either the lowest bid price, or the
lowest evaluated bid price).
      (3)   The Mayor shall open all bids publicly at the time and place stated
in the advertisement, and shall select:
         (a)   The lowest bid price; or
         (b)   The lowest evaluated bid price, based on the criteria set forth
in the invitation for bids.
      (4)   The Mayor shall submit the bid selected to the legislative body for
approval and thereafter shall notify all bidders of the award.
      (5)   The Mayor shall sign contract, if one is used, or the contract may
become effective as otherwise provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (6)   When items are delivered, the invoice shall be placed in a file by
vendor name.
      (7)   The Mayor or his or her designee officer shall enter the amount of
the expenditure in the disbursement ledger.
   (B)   Procedures for determination of qualifications of bidders. The
contractors who have demonstrated by past performance the ability to perform in
a satisfactory manner in accordance with other awarded contracts on a timely
basis, and have shown a sound financial structure, shall be qualified as
responsible.
   (C)   Procedure prerequisite to use of negotiated process.
      (1)   The non-competitive negotiated process may be used instead of
advertisement when the amount exceeds $20,000.00, in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   An emergency exists;
         (b)   The contract is for professional services;
         (c)   All bids received exceed the amount-budgeted;
         (d)   All bids received are unresponsive;
         (e)   No bids are received at all;
         (f)   There exists only a single provider of the product or service;
or
         (g)   Purchase involves perishable items.
      (2)   Before an emergency is declared the Mayor shall determine whether
or not the delay in obtaining bids will result in danger to health, safety or
property, and submit such determination to the Chief Financial Officer.
      (3)   The Mayor shall certify the existence of an emergency and file a
copy of such certificate with the Chief Financial Officer of the city.
      (4)   A professional service is one performed by a licensed professional
and an activity for which the license is required provided, however, that this
provision shall not apply to architects or engineers providing construction
management rather than professional architect or engineer services.
      (5)   In the event all bids submitted are in excess of funds available,
the Mayor shall prepare a written determination that:
         (a)   There are no additional funds available so as to permit an award
to the responsible bidder with lowest bid or the lowest evaluated bid; and
         (b)   Delay in advertising for additional bids is not in the best
interest of the city.
   (D)   Procedures for negotiated process.
      (1)   When the prerequisites have been met for use of the negotiated
process, the Mayor shall proceed to negotiate with one or more suppliers in
order to obtain the most advantageous terms for the city.
      (2)   The Mayor shall prepare a record of all negotiated contracts
showing the items and quantities acquired, name the suppliers, cost and date of
contract.
      (3)   Professional services shall be negotiated with such person or firm
as are properly licensed to perform such services and shall be limited to those
services to which the license applies.
      (4)   Where more than one bid was received and all were in excess of the
amount available, the lowest three bidders (or lowest two bidders if only two
bids were received) shall be notified that the city desires to negotiate a
contract for a lesser amount. A request for proposals, based on revised
quantities or specifications, may be issued with a time limit set for
submission of new proposals.
      (5)   The Mayor shall examine the proposal received and shall negotiate
with the suppliers for the terms most advantageous to the city.
      (6)   The best negotiated proposal shall be submitted to the legislative
body for approval and award.
      (7)   The Mayor shall notify all persons submitting a proposal that the
award had been made.
   (E)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee and each official or department
head shall determine:
         (a)   The need for any item requested;
         (b)   Whether or not the contract is for less than $20,000.00; and
         (c)   The expenditure is provided for in the current budget.
      (2)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall enter the actual amount of
the expenditure in the ledger.
(Ord. 10-09-1, passed 10-12-09) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of §§
33.45 through
33.47 by any city official, officer or employee shall be a fine not to exceed
$500.00 and/or confinement in the county jail not to exceed 12 months or both,
and conviction thereunder shall be good cause for removal from office in
accordance with KRS 83A.040.
(Ord. 10-09-1, passed 10-12-09)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records in active use, storage or not otherwise available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.”
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which derives at least 25% of its funds expended by it in
the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local authority funds;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   “PUBLIC RECORDS.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORDS” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1) (h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.12 .
   “REASONABLE FEE” or “FEE.” The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” A written application by any person to inspect public records of
the city.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)(1).
a. to e.
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. “SOFTWARE” consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST.
   (A)   (1)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.12, any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a written application, signed by the applicant with his or her name
and contact information printed legibly on the application/request, describing
the records to be inspected, at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays or to be copied.
Additionally, the applicant shall provide a statement, in the written
application, of the manner which the applicant is a resident of the
Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(10)(a) to (g) and §
34.01 herein. The application shall be hand delivered, mailed, sent via
facsimile to the City Clerk Treasurer’s office, or sent via e-mail.
         (a)   If hand delivered or mailed to: City Clerk-Treasurer, City of
Flemingsburg, 140 West Electric Avenue, Flemingsburg KY 41041;
         (b)   If via facsimile: City Clerk-Treasurer, 606-845-0712; or
         (c)   If via e-mail to: openrecordsrequest@flemingsburgky.org.
      (2)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under state law.
(KRS 61.872 (2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with the open records law and the requested records are available, the
custodian shall make the records available for inspection within five (5) days
(excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) of receipt of the request.
Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer during regular business hours of the city for the inspection. No
resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original copies of public records
from the offices of the city without the written permission of the official
custodian of the record. The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and to obtain copies of public records not exempted from
this chapter, state law, or federal law. Payment of the prescribed fee in §
34.01 shall be required for all copies.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   An applicant may request copies of said public records in lieu of
inspection. If requested, the custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of
all fees and the cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the city
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. The city is not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (E)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than eight and one-half (8½) inches × eleven (11) inches in at least one (1)
color on white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic
American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the city
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public records may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the city. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (F)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the city of media, mechanical processing and staff required to
produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the city of the
creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to division (F) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (H)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the city.
If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means and the city
agrees to provide online access, the city may require that the party enter into
a contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees
for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1) The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost of
computer time access charges;
      (2) If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in division (F).
(KRS 61.874(6))
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record, if known to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(KRS 61.872(4))
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS IN ACTIVE USE, STORAGE, OR NOT OTHERWISE AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and shall
designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records, not to
exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from
receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is given
for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the public
record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the city, the custodian may
refuse to permit inspection of the public records or mail copies of public
records. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The custodian, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General’s opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
(Am. Ord. 1221-2, passed 12-21-21)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly discussed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “TERRORIST ACT” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce the city or a public agency or all or
part of the civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a the city.
         (c)   On the same day that the city denies a request to inspect or
copy a public record for a reason identified in this division, the city shall
forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS 61.880
(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security and
the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of the
city with respect to disclosure and availability of public records under state
environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without an award of a
contract and there is a determination that the contract will not be
resolicited; and
         (c)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31; and
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878)
(Am. Ord. 12-21-2, passed 12-21-21)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings Open to the Public
   
34A.06   Requirements for Closed Sessions
   
34A.07   Public Meeting Schedules
   
34A.08   Special Meetings
   
34A.09   Video Teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805 (3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, regardless of where the meeting is
held, and whether regular or special and informational or casual gatherings
held in anticipation of or in conjunction with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805 (4))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statue, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency" as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency";
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualification of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805 (2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chs. 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05 (A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meeting of the general nature
of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the closed
session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05 (A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4) but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), and (9) are excluded from the requirements of subsection
(A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public. (KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, shall be held in
accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) above
by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public agency members
and media organizations that have filed a written request with the public
agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail notification in
lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or mail. The written
request shall include the electronic mail address or addresses of the agency
member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A) (1) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting, other than a closed session,
through video teleconferences.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as appropriate; in addition the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify the video teleconference locations as well as
which, if any, location is primary.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Community Television Access Board
   
35.01   Establishment, powers, limitations, duties, funding and procedures of
the Community Television Access Board
   
35.02   Composition, appointment and other matters related to Board personnel
   
35.03   Funding
   
35.04   Mayor to resolve certain matters; appeals
Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission
   
35.10   Establishment
Housing Authority Commission
   
35.15   Establishment
   
35.16   Composition and appointment
   
35.17   Qualifications and terms
   
35.18   Compensation
Joint Dispatch Board
   
35.30   Creation; membership
   
35.31   Meetings; Chairman
   
35.32   Duties
   
35.33   Facilities; funding
Planning Commission
   
35.45   Creation of planning unit; jurisdiction
   
35.46   Planning Commission created; members
   
35.47   Term of office
   
35.48   Reimbursement; disposition of funds
   
35.49   Commission to operate in accordance with statutory provisions
Police Department
   
35.60   Establishment
   
35.61   Police Chief; police officers
   
35.62   Police regulations
Recreation Board
   
35.70   Establishment
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.75   Establishment
   
35.76   Volunteer Fire Chief
Ethics Board
   
35.80   Establishment
Joint Economic Development Commission
   
35.85   Establishment; membership
   
35.86   Powers; duties
Code Enforcement Board
   
35.100   Definitions
   
35.101   Appointment and membership
   
35.102   Enforcement powers
   
35.103   Appointment of members; term of office; removal of office; oath;
compensation
   
35.104   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
35.105   Conflict of interest
   
35.106   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
35.107   Hearing officers
   
35.108   Enforcement proceedings
   
35.109   Hearing; notice and final order
   
35.110   Presentation of cases
   
35.111   Appeals; final judgment
   
35.112   Ordinance fine schedule
   
35.113   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
35.114   Lienholder notification system
   
35.115   Liens
   
35.116   Immediate action
Tourist and Convention Commission
   
35.130   Establishment of Commission
   
35.131   Membership
   
35.132   Election of officers
   
35.133   Meetings
   
35.134   Request for funds
COMMUNITY TELEVISION ACCESS BOARD
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT, POWERS, LIMITATIONS, DUTIES, FUNDING AND PROCEDURES OF
THE COMMUNITY TELEVISION ACCESS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Community Television Access Board
(hereinafter “the Board”), whose principal duties and responsibilities shall
include the administration, regulation, implementation, and utilization of the
local cable television community access channel as originally provided for by
Fleming Cable Vision, Inc., pursuant to Ordinance 5-85-1, and as subsequently
amended by the city, and as assumed by successor providers.
   (B)   The Board shall be empowered to establish, promulgate, and implement
any and all rules and regulations necessary for the organization of the Board
and for the administration of the cable television access channel; subject to
all applicable local, state, and federal laws. Funds of the Board shall be
maintained in an account at any bank located within the city limits of the
city, as selected by the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall be concerned only with matters involving the Community
Access Channel and shall have no other authority to regulate or decide any
other matter involving cable television.
   (D)   The Board shall meet as required to properly conduct its business and
responsibilities, and shall meet not less than once each quarter throughout the
year.
   (E)   The Board, by and through its designated member, shall report to the
Mayor and the City Council, at any Council’s regular monthly meeting, at least
once each quarter, on matters involving community access television.
   (F)   The City Council shall provide to the Board sufficient funds, out of
the cable television franchise fee (but not more than the total of the fee),
for the general operation and maintenance of the community access television
system. The City Council may provide additional funding to the Board as an
extraordinary measure from city general funds, if available, and if approved in
advance by the full City Council.
   (G)   If any matter subject to the Board’s authority results in an impasse
or in situations where certain matters evoke questions beyond the scope of the
Board’s authority, then such matters shall be presented to the Mayor for
presentation and ultimate resolution by the full City Council.
   (H)   Any person(s) or entity aggrieved by a decision of the Board shall be
permitted to appeal to the Mayor in writing within ten days of the decision
stating the basis for the appeal; the Mayor shall then appoint at random a
three-member review panel composed of City Council members (excluding the
member of this Board), and the review panel shall conduct a hearing on the
appeal and from the record make its decision.
(Ord. 8-86-1, passed 8-4-86; Am. Ord. 3-10-1, passed 3-8-10)
§ 35.02 COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT AND OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO BOARD PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of seven members including:
      (1)   The Mayor of the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky, or his/her
designee;
      (2)   A City Councilperson of the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky;
      (3)   Five persons of age 18 or older, all being residents of Fleming
County, Kentucky, with at least three of the five being either residents of the
city, or persons who own and maintain a business within the city limits of the
city.
   (B)   All members of the Board except the Mayor shall serve for the duration
of the term of office of the City Council who appointed them, and shall be
subject to re-appointment by successor City Councils for the new Council’s term
of office. The Mayor or his/her designee shall serve for the duration of the
term of office of the Mayor who appointed him/her, and shall be subject to re-
appointment by any successor Mayor for the new Mayor’s term of office.
   (C)   All appointments to the Board shall be made by the Mayor, subject to
the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Both the Mayor and the City Councilperson appointed as a Board member
shall have the authority to decide upon matters brought before the Board as
full voting members.
   (E)   The Board shall elect from its voting membership:
      (1)   A Chairperson, who shall preside at its meetings;
      (2)   A Vice-Chairperson, who shall preside in the Chairperson’s absence;
and
      (3)   A Secretary-Treasurer, who shall maintain and control the funds of
the Board in accordance with direction of the Board. The Chairperson (or Vice-
Chair) shall have voting rights for each motion presented for vote by the
Board.
   (F)   The Board members shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for any reasonable personal expenses incurred as a result of their
activities as a Board member.
   (G)   The city shall save and hold harmless from civil liability any Board
member acting in good faith while pursuing his/her duties in accordance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 8-86-l, passed 8-4-86; Am. Ord. ll-86-l, passed ll-l7-86; Am. Ord. 3-10-
1, passed 3-8-10)
§ 35.03 FUNDING.
   The City Council shall provide the Community Television Access Board with
sufficient funds out of the cable television franchise fee, for the general
operation and maintenance of the community access television system.
(Ord. 8-86-1, passed 8-4-86)
§ 35.04 MAYOR TO RESOLVE CERTAIN MATTERS; APPEALS.
   (A)   If any matter subject to the Community Television Access Board's
authority results in an impasse or in situations where certain matters evoke
questions beyond the scope of the Board's authority, then such matters shall be
presented to the Mayor for resolution.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision of the Board shall be
permitted to appeal to the Mayor in writing within ten days of the decision,
stating the basis for the appeal. The Mayor shall then appoint at random a
three-member review panel composed of Councilmembers who are not members of the
Board. The review panel shall conduct a hearing on the appeal and from the
record make its decision.
(Ord. 8-86-1, passed 8-4-86)
FAIR HOUSING/HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
§ 35.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission, see §
95.06.
HOUSING AUTHORITY COMMISSION
§ 35.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 80.020 there is hereby established the
City Housing Authority Commission. The Housing Authority Commission shall be
governed, organized, and empowered as provided in KRS 80.020 et seq.
('78 Code, § 2-1)
§ 35.16 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Housing Authority Commission shall consist of the Mayor, ex officio, and
four persons appointed by him with the approval of the City Council.
(KRS 80.030)
§ 35.17 QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   Each person appointed to the Housing Authority Commission shall be at
least 25 years of age and a bona fide resident of the city for at least one
year preceding the appointment. No officer or employee of the city, whether
holding a paid or unpaid office, is eligible to hold an appointment on the
Housing Authority Commission.
   (B) Appointees to the Housing Authority Commission shall be originally
appointed for terms of four years. Upon the expiration of the term of the first
appointees, their successors shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three,
and four years, respectively, and upon the expiration of the term of each of
the second group of appointees his successor shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C) Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same manner as the
original appointment.
(KRS 80.040(1)(a))
§ 35.18 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Housing Authority Commission, except an ex officio
member, may receive compensation either as a salary or as payment for meetings
attended. The compensation of members of the Housing Authority Commission shall
fix the compensation of the Secretary and Treasurer, but the City Council may
fix or limit the salary.
(KRS 80.060)
JOINT DISPATCH BOARD
§ 35.30 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created a Joint Dispatch Board with membership on the Board
being comprised of six voting members, to be appointed as follows:
   (A)   The city shall have three voting appointees who shall be selected and
appointed by the Mayor. The initial term of the appointees shall run through
the first Monday in January of 1990, or until their successors qualify. Terms
of appointees thereafter shall be for two years, expiring on the first Monday
of every even-numbered year, or until their successors qualify.
   (B)   The county shall have three voting appointees who shall be selected
and recommended by the County Judge Executive to the Fiscal Court, and who
shall be subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court prior to beginning their
duties on the Board. The initial term of the appointees shall run through the
first Monday in January of 1990, or until their successors qualify. Terms of
appointees thereafter shall be for two years, expiring on the first Monday of
every even-numbered year, or until their successors qualify.
(Ord. 6-86-1, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-88-3, passed 11-21-88)
§ 35.31 MEETINGS; CHAIRMAN.
   (A)   The meetings of the Joint Dispatch Board shall be held as required and
as called by the Chairman.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Joint Dispatch Board shall be either the Mayor or
the County Judge Executive who shall rotate the chairmanship as follows: the
first term, which shall run through the first Monday in July 1989, shall be
determined by the toss of a coin between the Mayor and the County Judge, who
shall thereafter alternate on an annual basis the position of Chairman of the
Joint Dispatch Board.
   (C)   The Chairman shall not have voting rights except to break a tie among
the regular voting members.
(Ord. 6-86-1, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-88-3, passed 11-21-88)
§ 35.32 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Joint Dispatch Board to oversee the operation of the
dispatch services of the city and county governments. The Dispatch Board shall
be responsible for the hiring and firing of all full- and part-time
dispatchers, and shall see that any new employees are provided proper training
on the equipment located in the dispatch office. The Board shall further
schedule work hours and vacations in such a way as to provide continuous
services around the clock on a year-round basis.
(Ord. 6-86-1, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-88-3, passed 11-21-88)
§ 35.33 FACILITIES; FUNDING.
   (A)   The county shall provide all existing floor space and facilities at no
cost to the Joint Dispatch Board, and further provide worker's compensation,
unemployment, and other fringe benefits such as health insurance to the
employees who work in the dispatch office. The employees are deemed to be
employees of the county for purposes of withholding and fringe benefits only,
since they are actually employees of the Joint Dispatch Board.
   (B)   The city and the county will cooperate in the application for grants
or other public funds to aid in the financing of the operation of the dispatch
services.
   (C)   The Board shall not acquire, hold, or dispose of real or personal
property of any nature whatever except regarding the receiving and disbursing
of funds required for actual salaries paid.
   (D)   The funds for all salaries paid shall be provided as follows: one-half
by the city and one-half by the county, after credits for any grant monies
available have been applied. In order to receive funds from the city and the
county, the Joint Dispatch Board shall be responsible for making available and
submitting to the city and the county a proposed budget formulated by the Board
in time to have the budget proposal incorporated in the master budgets of both
the city and county.
(Ord. 6-86-1, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-88-3, passed 11-21-88)
   (C)   The funds for all operation shall be provided as follows: one-half by
the city and one-half by the county, after credits for any grant monies
available have been applied. In order to receive funds from the city and the
county, the Joint Dispatch Board shall be responsible for making available to
the city and the county a proposed budget formulated by the Board and submit
same to the local governments in time to have the budget proposal incorporated
in the master budgets of the city and the county.
(Ord. 11-88-3, passed 11-21-88)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 35.45 CREATION OF PLANNING UNIT; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The city does hereby form an independent planning unit for purposes of
conducting planning operations in accordance with KRS Chapter 100.
   (B)   The area of jurisdiction of the independent planning operation shall
include all the city and a two-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction from all
points beyond the city's boundary, but not beyond the county boundary, nor
within the boundary of any city not in this planning unit.
(Ord. 79-3, passed 11-5-79)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction, see KRS § 100.131
§ 35.46 PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERS.
   A Planning Commission is hereby created and shall be known as the "City
Planning Commission of Flemingsburg, Kentucky", and which shall consist of
seven members. The Mayor shall appoint these seven members with the approval of
the City Council. At least five of such members shall be citizens who are not
elected officials, appointed officials, or public employees. The Fleming County
Judge may appoint one additional member to the Planning Commission in addition
to the seven members already specified, because of the extraterritorial
jurisdiction exercised by the city in §
35.45(B).
(Ord. 79-3, passed 11-5-79)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of members, see KRS §§ 100.133 and 100.141
§ 35.47 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of all elected public officials shall be the same as
their official tenure in office. For other members, the term shall be four
years ending on July 1 of the designated year, and terms of those first
appointed shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve one, two,
three, and four years respectively with later
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for expenses, see KRS 100.153
§ 35.48 REIMBURSEMENT; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All members shall be reimbursed for any necessary authorized
expenditures, but no member shall be otherwise compensated.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have the right to receive, hold, and
dispense funds which it may legally receive from any and every source.
(Ord. 79-3, passed 11-5-79)
§ 35.49 COMMISSION TO OPERATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   All other details of the Planning Commission operations which are necessary
for the establishment and administration of the Commission, for the preparation
of plans, and for the aids to help implement the plans, shall be as described
in KRS Chapter 100.
(Ord. 79-3, passed 11-5-79)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
§ 35.61 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
number of regular police officers as are authorized by ordinance of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief or a regular
police officer unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Qualifications, training, and compensation shall be as established by
City Council by ordinance.
   (E)   The position of police sergeant is hereby established. The duties and
responsibilities of the position are included in the job description attached
as Exhibit B to Ordinance 4-08-2 and fully incorporated herein by reference as
if fully set forth herein. Compensation for the position is Grade 35 with a low
of $12.36 per hour and a high of $18.55 per hour. Such salary may be changed in
the future by overall increases granted all city employees by action of the
City Council, or by merit increase approved by City Council.
(Am. Ord. 4-08-2, passed 4-29-08)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications for police officers, KRS 95.951
   Training for police officers, KRS 95.955
§ 35.62 POLICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations are hereby fixed, established, and
promulgated by the city for the purpose of providing certain guidelines in
controlling the conduct of officers of the Police Department.
      (1)   The officers of the Police Department shall not go outside the city
limits in their regular course of duty, subject only to situations where the
officer is in hot pursuit of an offender in violation of a public offense when
such pursuit was begun within the city.
      (2)   Due to the great danger involved in high-speed operation of
vehicles, the police are not to engage in high-speed pursuit of offenders
except when life is in danger or a serious crime has been committed.
      (3)   The doors of each business establishment within the city are to be
checked by the officers on duty while such business establishment is closed,
sometime between the hours of 6:00 p.m. in the evening and 6:00 a.m. of the
following morning, on each and every day.
      (4)   One officer is to be on duty at the intersection of Water Street
and Main Cross Street between the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and 4:00
p.m. to 5:00 p.m. to aid in the orderly flow of traffic, except in the case of
emergencies.
      (5)   All parking meters within the city are to be checked at least four
times each day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and
holidays.
      (6)   Whenever two officers are on duty at the same time, they will
patrol in separate vehicles except when necessary to be together for safety
purposes.
      (7)   It is the policy of the city not to operate "speed traps" or to
engage in concealment of the police vehicle when clocking other vehicles. All
vehicle clocking in by radar or other means is to be done with the police
vehicle in plain view.
      (8)   The members of the Police Department are to conduct themselves in a
professional manner at all times consistent with the high office which they
hold. They shall be allowed two ten-minute breaks on each working shift, one
during the first four hours of duty and another during the second four hours of
duty.
      (9)   The working hours and shifts for each member of the Police Force
shall be established by the Mayor, or the Chief of Police under the authority
of the Mayor, as needs may require. The pay scale for all members of the
Department shall be established by ordinance of City Council from time to time.
      (10)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, the
officers of the Police Department are granted the specific jurisdiction to
travel via Kentucky 11 and Taylor Mill Road to the Flemingsburg-Fleming County
Industrial Park as a part of the regular patrol and in their regular course of
duty. The officers shall have the same jurisdiction on this route and within
the Industrial Park as they hold within the city limits.
   (B)   This section is to be construed along with other regulations adopted
by the city and is not meant to be the sole body of regulations with respect to
the Police Force. Further powers and duties shall include those already set by
existing city regulations and state law.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 9-10-79; Am. Ord. 5-82-2, passed 5-24-82)
Cross-reference:
   Racial Profiling Policy, see §§
39.01 et seq.
RECREATION BOARD
§ 35.70 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board,
see §§
96.01 -
96.04.
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.75 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city to be known as the
Flemingsburg Volunteer Fire Department.
§ 35.76 VOLUNTEER FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Volunteer Fire Chief is hereby established.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Volunteer Fire
Department with the approval of the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall operate pursuant to rules and
regulations promulgated by the Volunteer Fire Department and approved by the
Mayor and City Council.
ETHICS BOARD
§ 35.80 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
38.19 -
38.28.
JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 35.85 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 65 there is hereby created a joint commission known
as the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Economic Development Commission composed of
nine (9) voting members determined as follows:
   (A)   The Fleming County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   The Mayor.
   (C)   A member of the Fleming County Fiscal Court to be recommended by the
County Judge/Executive and approved by the Fleming County Fiscal Court.
   (D)   A member of the Flemingsburg City Council to be recommended by the
Mayor and approved by the Flemingsburg City Council.
   (E)   The Treasurer of Fleming County.
   (F)   The Treasurer of the City of Flemingsburg.
   (G)   A member of the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Industrial Authority
appointed by the County Judge/Executive with the approval of the Fleming County
Fiscal Court.
   (H)   A member of the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Industrial Authority
appointed by the Mayor of the City of Flemingsburg with the approval of the
Flemingsburg City Council.
   (I)   The serving President of the Fleming County Chamber of Commerce, which
member is to be jointly appointed each year by the Mayor of the City and the
County Judge/Executive of the County, with approval by the two (2) respective
legislative bodies.
(Ord. 8-98-1, passed 8-3-98)
§ 35.86 POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and purpose of the Flemingsburg/Fleming County
Economic Development Commission to promote, solicit, maintain, and assist
economic development in the city and Fleming County, Kentucky.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute on behalf of
the city an interlocal agreement with the County of Fleming establishing the
Flemingsburg/Fleming County Economic Development Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall operate in accordance with the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement between the city and the County of Fleming for
establishing the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Economic Development Commission.
The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part hereof as though fully set out herein.
(Ord. 8-98-1, passed 8-3-98)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 35.100 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   "ABATEMENT COSTS." A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   "CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD." An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839.
   "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   "FINAL ORDER." Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with §
35.109(E) or (F);
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with §
35.109(E) and that is not appealed to the Code Enforcement Board as provided in
§
35.109(F);
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in §
35.109(F); or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
35.109(C).
   "IMMINENT DANGER." A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   "ORDINANCE." An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   "OWNER." A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   "PREMISES." A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.101 APPOINTEMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the
city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members, all of
whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one (1) year prior
to the appointment of the Board and shall reside there throughout the term in
office.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.102 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of this subchapter has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.103 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one
(1) year;
      (2)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two
(2) years; and
      (3)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within sixty (60) days of the
vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.104 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be scheduled by
the Board. Special meetings or emergency meetings will be held in accordance
with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.105 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself from voting on the matter in which
he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.106 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
   (G)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with §
35.107.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.107 HEARING OFFICERS.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be a hearing officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party's
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
      (3)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this
paragraph and any additional standards established in writing by the Board. The
Board shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has determined
that the affidavit satisfies the experience or training requirements.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in §
35.109.
   (D)   Final order.
      (1)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with §
35.109(E).
      (2)   Within twenty-four (24) hours of entry, these findings,
conclusions, and final order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to
the Code Enforcement Board. The findings, conclusions, and recommended order
may be delivered to the alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the delivery.
   (E)   Appeal from final order.
      (1)   An alleged violator may appeal a final order issued by a hearing
officer to the Code Enforcement Board.
      (2)   The appeal shall be filed in writing to the Code Enforcement Board
within seven (7) days of receipt of the final order. Failure to file an appeal
within seven (7) days shall render the order final for all purposes.
      (3)   An alleged violator shall exhaust the administrative remedy of
appeal to the Code Enforcement Board before pursuing an appeal to District
Court in accordance with §
35.111.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.108 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
35.116, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a Notice of Violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the Chair of the Code Enforcement Board with a copy to the City Clerk.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of the final order shall be delivered to the cited violator
by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.109 HEARING; NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen years (18) of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer shall, based on
the evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it is determined
that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be
entered. If it is determined that a violation was committed, an order may be
issued upholding the citation. The Board or hearing officer may impose a fine
up to the maximum authorized by ordinance or require the offender to remedy a
continuing violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (F)   If the Code Enforcement Board is reviewing a final order entered by a
hearing officer on appeal as authorized by §
35.107(E), the Board shall review the record created before the hearing officer
and determine whether there is substantial evidence on the record to support
the finding of the hearing officer. If the Code Enforcement Board determines
there is not substantial evidence on the record, it shall enter an order
dismissing the citation. If the Board determines that there is substantial
evidence on the record, it shall issue a final order upholding the order
entered by the hearing officer. The provisions of this section shall apply to
any appeal hearing conducted pursuant to this division.
   (G)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.110 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer
shall be presented by an attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement
Officer for the city, or by a member of the city's administrative staff. The
City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer, or may present cases before the Board or hearing officer, but shall in
no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.111 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
35.109(E) or (F) may be made to the Fleming County District Court within thirty
(30) days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) above, the order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.112 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board or
an assigned hearing officer shall be subject to the following schedule of civil
fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                               1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Parking                                 $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Animals                                 $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Garbage                                 $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Weeds                                   $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Excessive Noise                         $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Nuisances as defined by Ord. 6- 94-5    $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
Unsafe & Unfit Structure Code*          $100.00     $200.00     $250.00
Rental unit permit                      $100.00     $200.00     $250.00
Occupational license                    $100.00     $200.00     $250.00
Failure to pay Restaurant Tax/Food Unit $100.00     $200.00     $250.00
Failure to pay Alcohol Beverage Control $100.00     $200.00     $250.00
regulatory fee
* Based on International Property Maintenance Code by International Code
Council
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board or assigned hearing officer is required, the following maximum penalties
may be imposed at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Parking                                   $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Animals                                   $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Garbage                                   $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Weeds                                     $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Excessive Noise                           $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Nuisance as defined by Ord. 6- 94-5       $100.00     $150.00     $200.00
Unsafe & Unfit Structure Code*            $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Rental unit permit                        $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Occupational license                      $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Failure to pay Restaurant Tax/Food Unit   $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Failure to remit Alcohol Beverage Control $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Regulatory fee
* Based on International Property Maintenance Code by International Code
Council
 
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16)
§ 35.113 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
35.100(D), or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation
of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of this subchapter, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following the
date of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
35.115, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of this subchapter. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.114 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
35.113, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and
update the required contact information with the city. The city shall inform a
registrant of any evidence received that the electronic mailing address is
invalid or not functional so that the registrant may provide an updated
electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month the city shall send electronic mail notification of all
final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city Code Enforcement
Database located on the city Web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten (10) days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
subchapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect a
summary of the issued final order, and shall post the notification required by
division (D) of this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement
database on the city Web site. The city will make the complete record of final
orders available upon request without charge.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
(10) years following their issuance.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
§ 35.115 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
35.114(B) may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
35.114(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the subchapter,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
35.113 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
35.114 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully
satisfied prior to the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city
shall release the lien in the County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded
within fifteen (15) days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
35.114 and §
35.115, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16)
§ 35.116 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 10-23-2, passed 10-9-23)
TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 35.130 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a tourist and convention commission to be named
the Flemingsburg Tourist and Convention Commission for the purpose of promoting
and developing convention tourist activities and facilities within the
territorial jurisdiction of the city. The Commission shall be an administrative
agency of the city government; nevertheless, nothing in this subchapter shall
preclude the city from joining with other local governing bodies of cities or
other counties for a joint commission, upon future action of the City Council
and the appropriate interlocal agency agreement provided for in KRS 91A.350 et
seq.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 35.131 MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Commission shall be composed of seven (7)
Commissioners to be appointed by the Mayor in accordance with KRS 91A.360.
Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner that original
appointments are made. The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three
(3) years, provided that in making the initial appointments, the Mayor shall
appoint two (2) Commissioners for a term of three (3) years, two (2)
Commissioners for a term of two (2) years, and three (3) Commissioners for a
term of one (1) year. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms to
which a Commissioner is reappointed. Subsequent appointments shall be for three
(3) years. A Commissioner may be removed by the Mayor, as provided in KRS
65.007.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 35.132 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a
Treasurer. The Commission may employ personnel and make contracts necessary to
carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 through 91A.390. Contracts may include,
but shall not be limited to, the procurement of promotional services,
advertising services, and other services and materials relating to the
promotion of recreational, tourist and convention business, provided contracts
of the type enumerated shall be made only with persons, organizations, and
firms with experience and qualifications for providing promotional services and
materials such as advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers and
printers.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 35.133 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet at such regular sessions as shall be established
by the Commission and may hold any other meetings as are necessary to transact
the business. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by written
call of any two (2) Commissioners. A majority of the membership of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum for transacting business, but a majority
vote, in person, of the entire membership of the Commission shall be required
to take any official action or to approve any contract.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 35.134 REQUEST FOR FUNDS.
   The Commission shall annually submit to the City Council a request for funds
(proposed budget) for the operation of the Commission for the ensuing year, and
a report of the operation of the Commission during the preceding year.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
                
Cross-reference:
   Transient room tax and restaurant tax, see §§
36.30 et seq.
CHAPTER 36. TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   County assessment adopted
   
36.02   Due date
   
36.03   Delinquency
   
36.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
36.05   Ad valorem property tax on shares of bank stock
   
36.06   Disposition of funds
   
36.07   Sheriff to bill and collect taxes
Deposit Franchise Tax
   
36.15   Imposition of tax
   
36.16   Due date
   
36.17   Lien imposed
   
36.18   Purpose; use
   
36.19   Implementation
Transient Room Tax and Restaurant Tax
   
36.30   Transient room tax
   
36.31   Payment of tax
   
36.32   Restaurant tax
   
36.33   Payment of tax
   
36.34   Interest in unpaid taxes
   
36.35   Auditing of financial accounts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Fleming County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 9-86-1, passed 9-24-86)
§ 36.02 DUE DATE.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
December 31.
(Ord. 9-86-1, passed 9-24-86)
§ 36.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   A two percent (2%) early payment discount shall be applied to any tax
bill, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, paid in full on or before
November 15 of the year in which the tax first becomes due.
   (C)   Any taxes not paid by January 1 following their due date shall be
subject to a penalty of 6% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent taxpayer
shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken by the
city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (D)   Any taxes not paid by February 1 following their due date shall be
subject to another 6% annual interest in addition to the 6% penalty imposed in
division (B) above.
   (E)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the
fourth class.
(Ord. 9-86-1, passed 9-24-86; Am. Ord. 9-92-4, passed 9-14-92)
§ 36.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The ad valorem tax imposed on motor vehicles by the city shall be
collected by the Fleming County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 36.05 AD VALOREM PROPERTY TAX ON SHARES OF BANK STOCK.
   The tax rate to be applied to the taxable fair cash value of the shares of
all banks located within the city shall be in the amount as established by
ordinance of City Council from time to time.
Statutory reference:
   Taxation of bank stock, see KRS 136.270(3)
§ 36.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 9-86-1, passed 9-24-86)
§ 36.07 SHERIFF TO BILL AND COLLECT TAXES.
   (A)   All taxes levied on real and personal property, including delinquent
taxes, set forth in an ordinance setting tax rates by the City Council, shall
be billed and collected by the Fleming County Sheriff as of the tax year 2024.
   (B)   The Fleming County Sheriff shall be compensated for said tax
collection in accordance with terms set forth in an Interlocal Agreement
between the city and county.
(Ord. 01-24-01, passed 1-8-24)
DEPOSIT FRANCHISE TAX
§ 36.15 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all “FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS” as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 2004 tax
year and all subsequent tax years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.015% on all
deposits with the city, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, which deposit are
maintained by the financial institutions, as such deposits are certified to the
city by the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet not later than October 1 of each year,
being taxable deposits located within the limits of the City of Flemingsburg,
Kentucky.
(Ord. 12-03-2, passed 12-15-03)
§ 36.16 DUE DATE.
   (A)   The city will issue deposit tax bills to financial institutions
located within the city not later than December 1 of each tax year beginning
with the year 2004, and for each tax year thereafter.
   (B)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount off the total tax
due if paid in full by December 31 of each year, or at 100% of the total tax
due if paid by January 31 of the immediately following tax year.
   (C)   Payment of the deposit tax after January 31 of the year following the
tax year shall result in a later penalty of 10% of the total tax due for the
preceding tax year, together with interest at the rate defined in KRS 131.010
(6) on the unpaid tax.
(Ord. 12-03-2, passed 12-15-03)
§ 36.17 LIEN IMPOSED.
   The city shall have a lien for the taxes imposed by this subchapter upon any
and all property subject to the tax imposed herein, as permitted by law.
(Ord. 12-03-2, passed 12-15-03)
§ 36.18 PURPOSE; USE.
   All moneys collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by City Council.
(Ord. 12-03-2, passed 12-15-03)
§ 36.19 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The City Clerk shall develop the necessary forms to provide for the
collection of this tax, and shall deposit the funds to the general fund of the
city.
(Ord. 12-03-2, passed 12-15-03)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX AND RESTAURANT TAX
§ 36.30 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   In order to provide a source of funds for the operation of the Tourist and
Convention Commission and to finance the costs of acquisition, construction,
operation and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, there is hereby imposed and levied a
transient room tax of three percent (3%) on the rent of each occupancy of a
suite, room or rooms, charged by all persons, companies, corporations, and
other like or similar persons, groups or organizations doing business as motor
courts, motels, hotels, inns, or similar accommodations business in the city.
The transient room tax shall be in addition to other taxes imposed by the City.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
                
Cross-reference:
   Tourist and Convention Commission, see §§
35.130 et seq.
§ 36.31 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Every person, company, corporation, or other like or similar person, group
or organization doing business as a motor court, motel, hotel, inn, or other
like or similar accommodations business in the city, shall pay monthly the
transient room tax set forth above. The tax shall be due and payable on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the month next following the month that the
tax is collected, together with a return on a form furnished by or obtained
from the City Clerk. The form shall set forth an aggregate amount of gross
rentals charged and collected during the preceding month for every room to
which the transient room tax applies, together with such other pertinent
information as the city may require.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 36.32 RESTAURANT TAX.
   In order to provide a source of funds for the operation of the Tourist and
Convention Commission and to finance the costs of acquisition, construction,
operation and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, including the city’s park system, there is
hereby imposed and levied a restaurant tax of three percent (3%) of the gross
retail sales by all restaurants doing business within the city. For purposes of
this subchapter, “RESTAURANTS” shall include any fixed or mobile commercial
establishment that engages in the preparation and serving of ready-to-eat foods
in portions to the consumer, including, but not limited to, restaurants, coffee
shops, cafeterias, short-order cafes, luncheonettes, grilles, tea rooms,
sandwich shops, soda fountains, grocery stores, roadside stands, street
vendors, catering kitchens, delicatessens or similar places or facilities in
which food is prepared for sale for consumption on the premises or elsewhere.
The term “RESTAURANTS” shall not include schools, food-vending machines, and
establishments serving only beverages in single service or original containers.
Temporary food stands, booths, street concessions and similar type operations
operated by nonprofit entities, or in conjunction with an organized festival or
other public event sponsored either partly or entirely by the city or local
civic organization, are exempt from the restaurant tax. The restaurant tax
shall be in addition to other taxes imposed by the city, except that for
restaurants it will be in lieu of the net profits tax.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
                
Cross-reference:
   Tourist and Convention Commission, see §§
35.130 et seq.
§ 36.33 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Every person, company, corporation, or other like or similar person, group
or organization doing business as a restaurant in the city, shall pay monthly
the restaurant tax set forth above. The tax shall be due and payable on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the month next following the month that the
tax is collected, together with a return on a form furnished by or obtained
from the City Clerk. The form shall set forth an aggregate amount of gross
retail sales during the preceding month for every restaurant to which the tax
applies, together with such other pertinent information as the city may
require.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 36.34 INTEREST ON UNPAID TAXES.
   Any tax imposed by this subchapter which shall remain unpaid after it
becomes due as set forth herein, shall have added to it a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of unpaid tax, plus interest at the rate of one-
half of one percent (1½%) for each month of delinquency or fraction thereof,
until paid in full. Further, any person or business who shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to properly complete and file a return as required herein or pay the tax
imposed herein, or any potion thereof, shall be subject to the penalties as set
forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 36.35 AUDITING OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS.
   All funds collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be maintained in an
account separate and unique from all other funds and revenues collected by the
city. The books of the Tourist and Convention Commission and its accounts as
established in KRS 91A.390(2) shall be audited annually by an independent
auditor who shall make a report to the Commission, to the associations
submitting lists of names from which Commission members are selected, to the
Mayor, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local governing body
that established the Commission that was audited. A copy of the audit report
shall be made available by the Commission to members of the public upon request
for inspection at no charge. Copies shall be provided to the public upon
request and may include the standard copy charge of ten (10) cents per page.
(Ord. 10-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
CHAPTER 37: RESERVED
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Title
   
38.02   Purpose and authority
   
38.03   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.04   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.05   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.06   Receipt of gifts
   
38.07   Use of governmental property, equipment, and personnel
   
38.08   Representation of interests before local governments
   
38.09   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.10   Post-employment restriction
   
38.11   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.12   Who must file
   
38.13   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.14   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38.15   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.16   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.17   Noncompliance with filing requirement Nepotism
   
38.18   Employment of relatives
Enforcement
   
38.19   Board of Ethics created
   
38.20   Facilities and staff
   
38.21   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
38.22   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.23   Notice of hearings
   
38.24   Hearing procedure
   
38.25   Appeals
   
38.26   Limitation of actions
   
38.27   Advisory opinions
   
38.28   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Local Governments Code
of Ethics."
§ 38.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of the Local Governments Code of Ethics to provide a
method of assuring that standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure
requirements for officers and employees of the city shall be clearly
established, uniform in their application and enforceable, and to provide the
officers and employees of the city with advice and information concerning
potential conflicts of interest which might arise in the conduct of their
public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   The Local Governments Code of Ethics is enacted under the power vested
in the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg and the city of Ewing by the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, including KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this ordinance, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS" or "BOARD." The County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing Board of Ethics which is created and vested
by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
code of ethics established.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to an office
with the city. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a
notification and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a
declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State.
   "CITY." The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky. It may also refer to the City of
Ewing, Kentucky where the context so requires.
   "CITY AGENCY." Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the county or city.
   "COUNTY." The County of Fleming, Kentucky.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the County of Fleming, the
City of Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing. The term "employee" shall not
include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   "LOCAL GOVERNMENT." The County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg and the
City of Ewing and agencies thereof.
   "OFFICER." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (A)   The Mayor and the County Judge/Executive.
      (B)   Members of the Fleming County Fiscal Court, Flemingsburg City
Council and Ewing City Commission.
      (C)   Members of the governing body of any local government agency or
board who have been appointed to the governing body of the agency or board by
the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing.
      (D)   Any person who is elected to a local government office or any
person who serves as a member of the governing body of any local governmental
agency or special taxing district but shall not mean an officer of a school
district or school board.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing and agencies thereof shall comply with the
following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg
or the City of Ewing to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself
or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action on any matter
before the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing in
order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
subsections (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent that any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the County of Fleming,
the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or the agency thereof served by
the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official
record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or employee shall
refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that is the subject
of the disclosure.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.05 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or
the City of Ewing or an agency thereof shall directly or through others
undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any contract made,
entered into, awarded, or granted by the respective local governments in
violation of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.06 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or
the City of Ewing or an agency thereof shall directly or indirectly through any
other person or business, solicit or accept any gift on an annual basis having
an accumulated fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100),
whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence or
could reasonably be expected to influence the officer or employee in the
performance of his or her public duties.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to the solicitation or acceptance of
contributions to the campaign of an announced candidate for public office.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prohibit a local government officer or employee
from giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public
service, commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the
lender's business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies, or fact-finding trips related to local
governmental business.
   (D)   No local government officer shall be prohibited from accepting a
gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.07 USE OF GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or
the City of Ewing shall use or permit the use of any city time, funds,
personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the private use of
any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated policy.
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.08 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or an agency thereof shall represent any
person or business, other than the respective governmental agency, in
connection with any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending
before the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or
any agency thereof.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.09 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or
the City of Ewing or any agency thereof shall intentionally use or disclose
confidential information acquired in the course of his or her official duties,
if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her
personal financial interest or that of another person or business. Information
shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.10 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or
the City of Ewing or any agency thereof shall appear or practice before County
of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof
with respect to any matter on which the officer or employee personally worked
while in the service of the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the
City of Ewing for a period of one (1) year after the termination of the
officer's or employee's service with County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.11 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg
or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof shall accept any compensation,
honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in consideration
of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech or article is
both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of service with
County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing and is
unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with County of Fleming, the
City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of
County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or any agency
thereof from receiving and retaining from County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or on behalf of County of Fleming, the City
of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing actual and reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the officer or employee in connection with an appearance,
speech or article, provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and
convincing evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of
County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or any agency
thereof and primarily for the benefit of County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or an agency thereof and not primarily for
the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.12 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following Officers of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the
City of Ewing shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the
Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected local government officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected local government office.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.13 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:30 p.m., February 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 4:30 p.m. on February 1 of each year,
provided that:
      (1)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy of an elective office shall
file his or her initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date
of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for an elective office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person
becomes a candidate for the elected office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension for filing a
statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.14 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than the lst day of December of
each year. The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.15 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five (5) years after
filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an elected officer the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements of
financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.16 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) during the preceding calendar year and
the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution, etc.)
      (5)   The name and address of any business in which the filer had at any
time during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or more.
      (6)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county , other than the filer's
primary residence, in which the filer had during the preceding calendar year an
interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or more.
      (7)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of one hundred dollars ($100) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer from those sources who conducted business with the respective
governmental entity during the preceding calendar year.
      (8)   The name and address of any creditor who the filer has knowledge
that the creditor has conducted business with the respective governmental
entity during the preceding calendar year and who is owed more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family or household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.17 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A)   within the time period established in the notice shall be
guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board in an amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) per day, up to a
maximum total civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500). Any civil fine imposed
by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city in a civil action
in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 38.18 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   The appointment to any office or position of employment with the County of
Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing shall not be prohibited
by reason of the familial relationship of the applicant and any elected or
appointed city official unless otherwise prohibited by a federal, state or
local constitution, statute, ordinance, regulation, judicial decree or other
law.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.19 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
appointed by the respective local governmental entities. The County of Fleming
shall appoint two (2) members to the Board, the City of Flemingsburg shall
appoint two (2) members to the Board and the City of Ewing shall appoint one
(1) member to the Board. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be
appointed within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this chapter. No
members of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city
agency. The members shall serve for a term of three (3) years; except that with
respect to the members initially appointed, of which the City of Ewing
appointment shall be for one (1) year and one of the members from each the
County of Fleming and the City of Flemingsburg shall be appointed for a term of
two (2) years and one of the members from each the County of Fleming and the
City of Flemingsburg shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. No more
than one (1) member appointed by the County of Fleming or the City of
Flemingsburg shall be of the same political party. Each member of the Board of
Ethics shall have been a resident of the governmental entity that appoints him
for at least one (1) year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside
in the governmental entity throughout his appointment. The members of the Board
of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputations
for integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may
be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the respective
appointing authority for misconduct, inability or willful neglect of duties.
Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under this
section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the
appointing authority.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within sixty (60)
days by the governmental entity that initially made the appointment. All
vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation unless
otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its members
and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the membership. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three (3) or more members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of three (3) or more members shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.20 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the County of Fleming, the
City of Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing in the annual budget, the County of
Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg and the City of Ewing shall provide the Board
of Ethics, either directly or by contract or agreement, with the facilities,
materials, supplies and staff needed for the conduct of its business. Initially
the County of Fleming shall provide five hundred dollars ($500.00) to the Board
of Ethics, the City of Flemingsburg shall provide five hundred dollars
($500.00) to the Board of Ethics and the City of Ewing shall provide two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to the Board of Ethics. Thereafter, all general
operating expenses necessary and reasonable, shall be shared by the County of
Fleming at 47.5% of cost, the City of Flemingsburg at 47.5% of cost and the
City of Ewing at 5% of cost. If any complaint is filed against any official or
employee of the respective governmental entities, which requires extraordinary
expenses beyond the routine matters, then the respective governmental entity
shall be responsible for all reasonable and necessary cost involved with
carrying on the investigation, including but not limited to processing the
complaint, cost of having hearings, attorney fees and recording fees. It shall
be the responsibility of the Board of Ethics to make arrangements for the
keeping of records and designating where those records shall be maintained.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.21 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, make findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of
Ewing or any agency thereof who are subject to its terms by issuing appropriate
orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg, or the City of Ewing.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.22 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten (10) working days to each officer
or employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator and only the alleged
violator publicly discloses the existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board
may publicly confirm the existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make
public any documents which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg, or the City of Ewing and their
taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence in city
government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer or
employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
respective governmental entity or an agency thereof.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.23 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a coy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.24 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all documents
and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the matter to
be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his representative,
of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within thirty (30) days after
completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its
findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the respective governmental entity.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the respective governmental entity that
the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.25 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
Fleming County within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action of
the Board of Ethics by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The
Board shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the
Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.26 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.27 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative and shall render an advisory opinion
when requested by any officer or employee of the city or a city agency who is
covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.28 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg
or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof shall subject to reprisal or
directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or
influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter,
prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any person who in good
faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to the attention of the
Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of County of Fleming, the City
of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or the Commonwealth any facts or
information relative to an actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or
any agency thereof discloses information which he knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he discloses with reckless disregard for
its truth or falsity.
         (b)    To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)    Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
§ 38.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the
City of Ewing or any agency thereof who is found by the Board of Ethics to have
violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil
offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), which may be recovered by the city in
a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg
or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof who is found by the Board of Ethics
to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to County of
Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or any agency thereof an
amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the officer or employee is
determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by County of Fleming, the City of
Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing respectively in a civil action in the nature
of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a
prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of County
of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing respectively or any
agency thereof is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient
cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
appropriate authority of County of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the
City of Ewing, or an agency thereof, or by any other officer or agency having
the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any
officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in
accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the County of
Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg, or the City of Ewing and with all applicable
laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 11-94-2, passed 11-7-94)
CHAPTER 39: RACIAL PROFILING POLICY
Section
   
39.01   Purpose and authority
   
39.02   Definition
   
39.03   Training
   
39.04   Discipline
§ 39.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The protection of and the preservation of the constitutional and civil
rights of individuals remains one of the paramount concerns of government, and
law enforcement in particular. To safeguard these rights, law enforcement
personnel shall not engage in any behavior or activity that constitutes racial
profiling. The decision of an officer to make a stop or detain an individual,
or conduct a search, shall not be soley motivated by consideration of race,
color, or ethnicity. Stops, detentions, or searches shall be based on
articulable reasonable suspicions, observed violations of law or probable
cause, and shall comply with accepted constitutional and legal provisions, and
with the Code and Cannon of Ethics adopted by the Kentucky Law Enforcement
Council through Peace Officer Professional Standards.
(Ord. 9-01-3, passed 9-17-01)
§ 39.02 Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "RACIAL PROFILING." A process that motivates the initiation of a stop,
detention, or search which is soley motivated by consideration of an
individual’s actual or perceived race, color, or ethnicity, or making
discretionary decisions during the execution of law enforcement duties based on
the above stated considerations. Nothing shall preclude an officer from relying
on an individual’s actual or perceived race, color or ethnicity as an element
in the identification of a suspect or in the investigation of a crime, a
possible crime or violation of law or statute.
(Ord. 9-01-3, passed 9-17-01)
§ 39.03 TRAINING.
   All officers shall complete the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council approved
training related to racial profiling. Such training shall comply with Federal
Law, state statutory provisions, case law and other applicable laws,
regulations, and established rules.
(Ord. 9-01-3, passed 9-17-01)
§ 39.04 DISCIPLINE.
   An officer who violates a provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
agency’s disciplinary procedures, which shall be consistent with other
penalties imposed for similar officer misconduct.
(Ord. 9-01-3, passed 9-17-01)
CHAPTER 40: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
40.01   Adoption by reference
§ 40.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The identity theft prevention program adopted by the city in Ordinance 12-
08-1 is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. A copy is on
file in the office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public during normal
business hours.
(Ord. 12-08-1, passed 12-8-08)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
   
51.   GAS
   
52.   UTILITY LINES
   
53.   SOLID WASTE
   
54.   UNIFIED SYSTEM OF BILLING, PAYMENT, COLLECTION AND DISCONTINUANCE OF
SERVICE FOR UTILITY SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Bond ordinance adopted by reference
   
50.002   Purpose and policy
   
50.003   Definitions
   
50.004   Abbreviations
   
50.005   Applications
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.010   Mandatory sewer connection
   
50.011   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
50.012   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
50.013   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
50.014   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
50.030   Public sewer not available
   
50.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.045   Permits
   
50.046   Prohibited connections
   
50.047   Design and installation
   
50.048   Inspections
   
50.049   [Reserved]
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
50.060   General conditions
   
50.061   Restricted discharges
   
50.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
50.063   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
50.065   Protection from accidental and sludge discharges
   
50.066   State requirements
   
50.067   City's right of revision
   
50.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
50.080   Wastewater dischargers
   
50.081   Wastewater contribution permits
   
50.082   Permit modifications
   
50.083   Permit conditions
   
50.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
50.085   Permit duration
   
50.086   Permit transfer
   
50.087   Compliance data reporting
   
50.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.089   Permit violations
   
50.090   Monitoring
   
50.091   Inspection and sampling
   
50.092   Pretreatment
   
50.093   Annual publication
   
50.094   Significant non-compliance
   
50.095   Confidential information
   
50.096   Signatory requirements
Fees
   
50.105   Purpose
   
50.106   Charges and fees
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
50.120   Right to enter premises
   
50.121   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
50.122   Access to easement
   
50.123   Safety
Enforcement
   
50.135   General
   
50.136   Notice of violation
   
50.137   Administrative orders
   
50.138   Show cause hearing
   
50.139   Additional enforcement remedies
   
50.140   Remedies nonexclusive
Rates and Charges
   
50.150   Water rate schedule
   
50.150A   Deposit for water service required
   
50.151   Explanation of sewer charges
   
50.152   Sewer rate schedule
   
50.153   Method of billing sewer surcharges
   
50.154   Financial management system
   
50.155   Amendments to comply with federal regulations
Emergency Water Shortage Regulations
   
50.170   Purpose
   
50.171   Definitions
   
50.172   Declaration of water shortage advisory
   
50.173   Declaration of water shortage alert
   
50.174   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
50.175   Declaration of rationing
   
50.176   Objectives of rationing
   
50.177   Water use rationing for residential users
   
50.178   Water use rationing for nonresidential water users
   
50.179   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities
   
50.180   Water shortage conservation measures
   
50.181   Enforcement of water rationing
   
50.182   Shortage water rates
   
50.183   Mayor may promulgate regulations
   
50.184   Violations
 
   
50.999   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Utility services, unified system of billing, payment, collection and
discontinuance of service, see
Ch. 54
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 BOND ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Water and Sewer Bond Ordinance passed August 24, 1959 and the Water and
Sewer Bond Ordinance passed October 4, 1965, which provides for the issuance of
bonds relating to the combined water and sewer system, are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this code, the same as if set out in full herein. Copies
shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours.
§ 50.002 PURPOSE; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city's KPDES permit or
the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system; and
      (5)   To provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the City Publicly
Owned Treatment Works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
superintendent of the POTW shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.003 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   "ACT" or "THE ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et. seq.
   "APPROVAL AUTHORITY." The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   "AGENCY." Any governmental or quasi governmental entity.
   "AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE." An authorized representative of a user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   An authorized representative of the city may be any person designated by the
city to act on its behalf.
   "BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR)." A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 CFR 403.12(b)).
   “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).” Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5. BMPs include, but are not limited to,
treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   “BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5).” The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five (5) days at 20º Celsius expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five (5) feet outside an inner face of the building wall.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called "house connection".
   "BUILDING SEWER PERMIT." As set forth in sections §§ 50.045 through 50.048.
   "CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER." An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   "CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS." National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307 (b) and
(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   "CITY." The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky; its City Council or Water and
Sewer Commission; or their designee.
   "CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA)." (Also known as the "Federal Water Pollution Control
Act") Public Law 92-500. October 18, 1972. 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq: as amended by
PL 95-217. December 28, 1977; PL 97-117 December 29, 1981; PL 97-440, January
8, 1983, and PL 100-04, February 4, 1987.
   "COMBINED SEWER." Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and storm water
or surface water.
   "COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF)." Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 CFR
403.7).
   "COMMISSION." The Water and Sewer Commission of the City of Flemingsburg.
   "COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants
and, in fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   "CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT." A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   "CONTROL AUTHORITY." The term "control authority" shall refer to the city
when there exists an approved Pretreatment Program under the provisions of 40
CFR 403.11.
   "COOLING WATER." The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   "DAILY MAXIMUM." The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   "DILUTE WASTESTREAM." Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   "DIRECT DISCHARGE." The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "DISCHARGER." Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   "DOMESTIC WASTEWATER." The water-carried wastes produced from non-commercial
or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   "EASEMENT." An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   "EFFLUENT." The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY" or "EPA." The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or their duly authorized official of said
agency.
   "EQUIPMENT." All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   "FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE." Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   "FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA)." A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 CFR 403.
   "GARBAGE." The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   "GRAB SAMPLE." A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration
of time.
   "HOLDING TANK WASTE." Any waste from holding tank such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   "INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined (see "compatible pollutant" above).
   "INDIRECT DISCHARGE." The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under section 307 (b) or 1994 (c) of the
Act, (33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged
into the system).
   "INDUSTRIAL USER (IU)." A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   "INTERCEPTOR." A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter from normal wastes while
permitting normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system or
drainage system by gravity. "INTERCEPTOR" as defined herein is commonly
referred to as grease, oil, or sand trap.
   "INTERFERENCE." A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:
      1)    Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      2)    Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): Section 405
of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title
II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and including State regulations contained in any State sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act (40 CFR 403.3).
   "MAY." This is permissive (see "shall" below).
   "MONTHLY AVERAGE." The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   "MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER." A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex, or where there is any combination of business and residence in the
same building or complex.
   "NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD." Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to
a specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
   "NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES/
KPDES PERMIT." A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C.
1332), or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority
and referred to as KPDES.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   "NEW SOURCE." Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307 (c) (33 U.S.C.
1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such
source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal
in the Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days
after proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is
commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   "NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT." A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 CFR 403.12(d)).
   "PASS THROUGH." A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately
by the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities
or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 CFR 403.3).
   "PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT." A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the Control Authority at least semiannually (40
CFR 403.12(e)).
   "PERSON." Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   "Ph." The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   "POLLUTANT." Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   "POLLUTION." The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   "POTW TREATMENT PLANT." That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   "PRETREATMENT" or "TREATMENT." The reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change, or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6
(d).
   "PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS." Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard imposed on a significant user.
   "PROCESS WASTEWATER." Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
product.
   "PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD." A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user's manufacturing process.
   "PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD." Any regulation developed under the
authority of 307 (b) of the Act and 40 CFR, Section 403. (5).
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   "PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyance not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
"POTW" shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority. Nothing in this definition shall expand the city's current policy of
maintenance of service branches.
   "REGULATED WASTESTREAM." An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   "SEWAGE." The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms "sewage" and
"wastewater" are used interchangeably.
   "SEWER." A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   "SEWER SYSTEM" or "WORKS." All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   "SEWER USER CHARGES." A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of such works.
   "SEWERAGE." Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   "SHALL." Is mandatory (see "may" above).
   “SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).” Defined by EPA regulations as:
      (A)   all industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards
under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (B)   any noncategorical user that:
         (1)   discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
("process wastewater" excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewaters), or
      (2)   contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, etc.) capacity
of the treatment plant, or
      (3)   has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority , to adversely affect the POTW treatment plant (inhibition,
pass through of pollutants, sludge contamination or endangerment of POTW
workers) or violate any requirements of this chapter. The city may determine
that an industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards is a non-
significant categorical industrial user rather than a significant industrial
user on a finding that the industrial user never discharges more than 100
gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-
contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in
the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to the city's finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in 40 CFR 403.12(q) together with any additional information necessary
to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   the industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
process wastewater.
Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in this section has no
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial
user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that
such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
(Ord. 7-91-1, passed 7-1-91; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
   "SLUG DISCHARGE." Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than
fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24)
hour concentration or flow rate during normal operation which adversely affects
the POTW.
   "SLUG LOAD." Any pollutant (including Biochemical Oxygen Demand) released in
a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
Industry's Discharge Permit and which include accidental spills.
   "SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN." A plan prepared by an industrial user
to minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   "SPLIT SAMPLE." Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   "STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC)." A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   "STANDARD METHODS." The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the recent editions of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater," published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and
as set forth in the Congressional Record, 40 CFR 136.
   "STATE." Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED "STORM SEWER"). A drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any
source.
   "STORM WATER." Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Commission of
the city or his duly authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   "SURCHARGE." A charge for service in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contribution contains biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD5), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Total Suspended Solids
(TSS), Oil & Grease or Ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which exceed
limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the control
authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS)." Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
   "TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE." Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   "TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN." Written plan submitted by industrial users
as an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic
compounds used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that
toxic organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the
POTW.
   "TOXIC POLLUTANT." Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA Section 307 (a) or any amendments
thereto.
   "UNPOLLUTED WATER." Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   "UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM." A wastestream that is not regulated by National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   "USER." Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   "WASTEWATER." The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   "WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT." A permit issued to industrial users which
authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in the Administration
Section of this chapter.
   "WASTEWATER FACILITIES." The structures, equipment, and processes required
to collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS." An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"water pollution control plant" or "sewage treatment plant".
   "WATERCOURSE." A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   "WATERS OF THE STATE." All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the State or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.004 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ADMI - American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   ASTM - American Society for Testing and Materials
   BMP - Best Management Practices
   BOD   - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   BPJ - Best Professional Judgment
   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations
   CIU - Categorical Industrial User
   CWA - Clean Water Act of 1979
   CWF - Combined Wastestream Formula
   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency
   FWA - Flow Weighted Average
   FR - Federal Register
   GC - Gas Chromatography
   GC/MS - Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectroscopy
   gpd - gallons per day
   IU - Industrial User
   KPDES - Kentucky Pollution Discharge Elimination System
   l - Liter
   mg - Milligrams
   mg/l - Milligrams per liter
   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW   - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   QA - Quality Assurance
   QC - Quality Control
   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC - Standard Industrial Classification
   SIU - Significant Industrial User
   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et. seq.
   TSS - Total Suspended Solids
   TTO - Total Toxic Organics
   USC - United States Code
   WCP - Wastewater Contribution Permit
(Ord. 7-91-1, passed 7-1-91; Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.005 APPLICATIONS.
   No connections with a city water main, gas, or sewer shall be made and no
services from the city system shall be turned on for services into any premise,
until the applicant shall have filed with the Flemingsburg Utilities written
application containing an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing use of the city water, gas,
and sewer system by the applicant. Applicants who are applying for service to
rental property which they do not own shall be required to have the landlord
sign the application stating that the landlord acknowledges he or she will be
responsible for payment of the bill if the tenant fails to pay.
(Ord. 10-23-3, passed 10-9-23)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.010 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
(are) hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90)
days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within one hundred (100) feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
paragraph (A), except as provided for in §§
50.030 and
50.031.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system within sixty (60) days in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or
salvaged and removed.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.011 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or management has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision
of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any
natural outlet or the responsibility for complying with applicable state and
federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.012 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments, and 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.013 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any leak,
defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary sewer,
building sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The Superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water into the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.014 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance
of the POTW or cause pass through to the receiving stream. These general
prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the user is
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other national,
state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the wastewater exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit or 60 degrees
Centigrade using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.50 or higher than
10.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
      (3)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD, etc.), released at a flow and/or concentration that will cause
interference with the normal operation of the POTW.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, i.e. wood, glass, ashes,
cinders, paper products (such as cups, dishes, napkins, and milk containers),
unshredded garbage, etc.
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40oC (104oF).
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems.
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludge, or scum to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use
or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of
the Act; any criteria, guideline, or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
      (8)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
Permit and/or sludge disposal system permit.
      (9)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points
designated by the POTW.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 50.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
50.010 through
50.014, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer system is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Fleming County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable local or
state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES Permits Excepted. Industries with current
NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points provided they
are in compliance of the issuing authority.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94)
§ 50.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits required:
      (1)   For residential; and
      (2)   For service to commercial, industrial, and other non-domestic
establishments.
In either case, the owner or owners or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. Applicants for service to commercial and
industrial establishments shall be required to furnish information about all
waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. Details
regarding commercial and industrial permits include but are not limited to
those required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW. The Superintendent
may deny or condition this new introduction or change based upon the
information submitted in the notification.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make, any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written permission from the Superintendent.
   (D)   A permit and inspection fee of three hundred dollars ($300) for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit and three hundred dollars
($300) for an industrial building shall be paid to the Commission at the time
the application is filed.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within sixty (60) days of the effective
date of this chapter. The owners of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources. Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of
water without presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to
public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Floor, basement or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the building shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer. No sanitary inlet which is lower than six (6) inches above the
top of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be connected by
direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer. Building sanitary sewer
connections in structures not meeting the criteria of this section will be
permitted only if the property owner has:
      (1)   Installed an individual pumping facility at the structure to
receive the building sewage. The pumping facility shall include a discharge
pipe with a high point which meets the criteria above; or
      (2)   Installed a sewer backflow stop or flap of such nature and design
to provide gravity flow to the sanitary sewer system and to prevent sewage
backflow into the property improvement.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single
connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees and tap-on fees for
new buildings using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new
building sewers. If additional sewer customers are added to the old building
sewers, additional sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no
new sewer tap is actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer's
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision,
unglazed clay sewer pipe, ASTM C-261, latest revision, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, ASTM C-700, latest revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA Specification C-
151 cement lined, and shall meet requirements of state plumbing code. Joints
shall be as set out hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is located
within five feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron
soil pipe or ductile iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot
deeper in the ground than the water service line. In the latter case, vitrified
clay pipe may be used. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be required
by the city where the building sewer is exposed to damage or stoppage by tree
roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used in filled or
unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer is less than
three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or other
external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavation for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
cleanout and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (K)   All persons working on city sewers with a cleaning rod must use an
approved type rod in cleaning sewer connections to city sewers.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.048 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative. The connections shall be made gastight and watertight
and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent water tight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.049 [RESERVED].
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 50.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall be
limited in discharge to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which
will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent
than those established in the regulations below if in his opinion such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his
opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent shall give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradeable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) milligrams per liter (100 mg/
l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures 32-150o (0-65oC).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Any water or wastes containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure
or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit,
prevents the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation
set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process
unless otherwise specifically noted in the Wastewater Contribution Permit
(WCP).
   (H)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60 day prior
notification of such discharge to the Superintendent. This notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type
of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The
Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time.
   (J)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter            Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
BOD                  300 mg/1
TSS                  300 mg/1
NH3-N                25 mg/1
Oil & Grease (total) 100 mg/1
 
      (2)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the set limit. Any other amenable constituents requiring
the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to
surcharge as noted on the Wastewater Contribution Permit. Exceedance of the
effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation
of a permit condition or this ordinance if the appropriated surcharge fee is
paid and the discharge does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (K)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system subject to any
compliance schedule as established in the Wastewater Contribution Permit. All
significant industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are
more stringent than applicable State and Federal regulations:
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic              0.13
Cadmium              0.07
Chromium, total      2.78
Chromium, Hexavalent 1.00
Copper               0.55
Cyanide, Amenable    0.20
Cyanide, total       1.20
Lead                 0.28
Mercury              0.0005
Molybdenum           1.88
Phosphorus, total    25
Nickel               2.63
Selenium             0.54
Silver               0.65
Zinc                 1.91
TTO                  2.13
 
   (L)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471, and 40 CFR 403, and 40 CFR Part 35. All users shall comply with the
requirements of those regulations.
   (M)   The Superintendent and/or his designee is authorized to establish
local limits pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c). In addition, the Superintendent may
develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, to implement local limits and the requirements of
this chapter. Such BMPs shall be considered local limits and pretreatment
standards.
   (N)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 4-11-1, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 10-11-
1, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 12-13-2, passed 12-9-13)
§ 50.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.063 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal. The city shall
require reporting of such information for their review. Any removal and hauling
of the collected materials shall be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms. Interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of
the Fleming County Health Department.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94; Am. Ord. 11-14-
1, passed 11-10-14)
§ 50.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all Pretreatment Standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities and at their expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangements for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
Special Waste Hauler's Permit. All applicants for a Special Waste Hauler's
Permit shall complete the application form, pay the appropriate fee, and
receive a copy of the city's regulations governing discharge to sewers of
liquid wastes from trucks. All persons receiving such permits shall agree, in
writing, to abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other
special provisions that may be established by the city as necessary for the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the operator a
sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (2)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purposes.
      (3)   Any liquid waste haulers illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to the penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §50.999 including fines
and imprisonment.
      (4)   Waste haulers who have been granted permissio to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state or Federal
regulations.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant user shall provide protection from accidental
and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to prevent accidental
and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner or user's own cost and expense. Once every two (2) years, the
Superintendent will determine whether each industrial user needs to develop or
update a plan to control slug discharges. If the Superintendent determines that
a slug control plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals
         (c)   Procedures for notifying POTW
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five (5) days following an accidental
discharge, the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of a damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage
to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any
fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this
subchapter, the Enforcement Response Plan, or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such dangerous discharge to occur are advised
of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than Federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.067 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right at the recommendation of the Superintendent to
establish by majority vote of its Council, more stringent limitations, or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any wastewater except as
authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and State and Federal regulations. A Wastewater Contribution
Permit may then be issued the Superintendent in accordance with section 50.081.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.081 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a Wastewater Contribution Permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. The Superintendent may require users
to obtain a Wastewater Contribution Permit as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a
Wastewater Contribution Permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
50.135 et seq. and §
50.999.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a Wastewater Contribution
Permit shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form
prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply
at least ninety (90) days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
Existing permit holder shall apply no later than sixty (60) days prior to
expiration of permit. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in
units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304 (g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variation if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable Pretreatment Standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable Pretreatment
Standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable Pretreatment Standards.
         (c)   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the
date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress and the
reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the user to return the
construction to the schedule established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
      (14)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Superintendent or his designee may issue a Wastewater
Contribution Permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein. The
Superintendent shall provide notice to each significant industrial user of the
issuance of the user's Wastewater Contribution Permit. Any person, including
the user, may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a permit
within fifteen (15) days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to place in the permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the permit shall not be stayed during the
appeal.
      (4)   The Superintendent may forward the appeal to the Mayor. If the
Mayor fails to act within thirty (30) days of receipt of the appeal, a request
for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
permit, not to issue a permit, or not to modify a permit shall be considered
final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative action and/or the permit must do so by filing a complaint with
the Fleming County Circuit Court in accordance with the appropriate procedures
of that court and any statute of limitations.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   The Superintendent may modify a Wastewater Contribution Permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city POTW, personnel, biosolids disposal and/or the receiving stream;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the Industrial User Permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations of failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13; or
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the discharge permit.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, on the average
and/or maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
CFR 403:12(o)(2);
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the said permit;
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (M)   A statement that indicates the Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
   (N)   A statement that the Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit is
nontransferable;
   (O)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, to be necessary.
   (P)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the Combined Wastestream Formula
and/or Flow-Weighted Average Formula as defined in section 50.003.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 CFR 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent
thirty (30) days in advance of any major change in production levels that will
affect the limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5)
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The
terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in
sections 50.060 - 50.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in their permit at least thirty (30)
days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in
the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater Contribution Permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A Wastewater Contribution Permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation without a thirty (30) day prior notification to the
Superintendent and provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner.
The Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed
necessary.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   (A)   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards or, in the case of a new user,
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into POTW, any user
subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall
submit, to the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and concentration
of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited
by Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements and the average and
maximum daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are
limited by such Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Requirements. The report
shall state whether the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
pretreatment and time schedule is necessary to bring the user into compliance
with the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Requirements. This
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user.
   (B)   Where compliance schedules are required, the following conditions
shall apply:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the
Superintendent, every six months (on dates specified in the Wastewater
Contribution Permit) unless required more frequently by the Permit, a report
indicating, at a minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the
effluent which are limited by such Pretreatment Standards or the discharge
permit. The report shall also include the chain-of-custody (COC) forms, field
data and any other information required by the Superintendent. In addition,
this report shall include a record of the average daily flow during the
reporting period. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration
of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc.,
the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports
are to be submitted. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12 and §
50.096.
      (2)   In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a
Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the Superintendent or the Pretreatment
Standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      (3)   The city may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance reports
to a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required
more frequently in the Pretreatment Standard or by the EPA and/or state, where
the industrial user's total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of
the following:
         (a)   0.01 percent of the WWTP's design dry-weather hydraulic or
organic capacity, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per day, whichever is
smaller, as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the
industrial user discharges in batches; or,
         (b)   0.01 percent of the maximum allowable headworks loading for any
pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard for
which approved local limits were developed in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge. All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to
the city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures
established by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to Section 304 (g) of the
Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, and amendments thereto and 40 CFR 261 or
with any other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling
shall be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator. Except as indicated in subsections (1) and (2) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the Superintendent, the samples must
be representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols and sulfides the samples
may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and
oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite
samples for other parameters unaffected by the composting procedures as
documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
Superintendent, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to
show compliance with instantaneous limits.
      (1)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
      (2)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d), a minimum of four (4)
grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical
sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data
are available, the Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the
reports required by 40 CFR 403.12(e) and (h), the industrial user is required
to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance
with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
   (C)   Where 40 CFR, Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants”, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A Baseline Monitoring Report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least ninety (90) days
prior to initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production Data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system.
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility.
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of discharges,
average and maximum flows from each process.
      (4)   Nature/Concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 CFR
Part 136 and amendments thereto.
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat the
facility’s discharge.
      (6)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in § 50.003 and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether Pretreatment Standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
(O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable Pretreatment
Standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the
requirements set out in §
50.088.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
sections (C) and (D) above, but at no time shall a new source commence
discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of
this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
   (F)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to all compliance schedules required by this chapter:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards.
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and in no event
shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the
Superintendent.
   (G)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements and
documentation associated with Best Management Practices as may be required.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for
a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall automatically be
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city or
where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violated and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within
thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation. Exception to this
regulation is only if the city performs the sampling within the same time
period for the same parameter(s) in question.
   (C)   Compliance with the terms of a Wastewater Contribution Permit shall be
deemed in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate, at
the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage system. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public right-of-way. The
Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans, and specifications
for such monitoring facilities and may require them to be constructed to
provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial waste and
sanitary sewage flows.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety of
city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days
following approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (D)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved U.S. EPA
procedures by the significant industrial user during a reporting period, as
required by the user's Wastewater Contribution Permit or by the city, shall be
submitted to the Superintendent, whether or not sampling analysis was required
by the industrial user's Permit.
   (E)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94)
§ 50.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, record examination, or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   The city, Approval Authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, Approval Authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibilities.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.092 PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance
with all Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations
as specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations. The city may require the
development of a compliance schedule for installation of pretreatment
technology and/or equipment by any industrial user that cannot meet discharge
limits required by this chapter. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater
to a level required by this chapter shall be provided, operated, and maintained
at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be
acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The review of such
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in a newspaper of general circulation
that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the
POTW, a list of significant users which were in significant non-compliance with
any Pretreatment Requirements or Standards. The notification shall also
summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same
twelve (12) months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city’s Pretreatment Program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three (3) years in accordance with
40 CFR 403.12 (O) (2).
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94; Am. Ord. 10-11-
1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.094 SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant non-compliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority under 40 CFR 403 to halt or
prevent such a discharge;
   (B)   Involves failure to report non-compliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as sixty-six percent (66%)
or more of all measurements taken during a six (6) month period that exceed (by
any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same
pollutant parameter.
   (D)   Results in a Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violation defined here as
thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six (6) month period that equal or exceed the product
of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable
TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, and O&G and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH).
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the Control
Authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public.
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge.
   (G)   Violations of Compliance Schedule Milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by ninety (90) days or more after the schedule date.
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within thirty (30) days of the due
date.
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations, which may include a violation of
Best Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
§ 50.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
Sludge Disposal System Permit and/or the Pretreatment Programs upon request.
Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified in accordance with the following requirements. Written
designation of the signatory official must be received by the city prior to
acceptance of any application or other required document.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president;
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   Any person signing a document under this section shall make the
following written certification:
         "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person(s) who manage the
system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information,
the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
      (2)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical
industrial user by the Superintendent pursuant to §§
50.001 et seq. must annually submit the following certification statement
signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in this section. This
certification must accompany any alternative report required by the
Superintendent:
         "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
[Part], I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from [month/day] , [year] to [month/day] , [year]:
         (a)   The facility described as [Facility Name] met the definition of
a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in §
50.003, Definitions.
         (b)   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements during this reporting period; and (c) the facility never
discharged more than one hundred (100) gallons of total categorical wastewater
on any given day during this reporting period.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 50.105 PURPOSE.
   This section provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW for
the implementation of the program established herein.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.106 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city's Pretreatment Program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;;
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 50.120 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties at any reasonable time for the purpose of,
but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing
pertinent to discharges to the public sewer system and inspection and copying
of all records in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.121 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees of the city and representatives of the state and
EPA bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain
information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94)
§ 50.122 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds an easement for the purpose of, but not
limited to, construction, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair, and maintenance of any portions of the wastewater facilities lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.123 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.122 above, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the property owner. The
city shall secure the property owner against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the property owner and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the property owner to maintain safe conditions as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.135 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city, through the POTW Superintendent or his designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 CFR Subchapter N, and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in non-
compliance with the chapter. The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the
Superintendent or his designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
a Wastewater Contribution Permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES Permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the Wastewater Contribution Permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the Wastewater Contribution Permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A
detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.136 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten (10)
days of the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission
of this plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any
violation occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of Violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city's response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be related to the seriousness
of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not
achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant non-compliance
as defined in section 50.094 will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
Enforcement Response Plan.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.137 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violations, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms.
      (1)   Consent orders. The Superintendent or his designee is hereby
empowered to enter into Consent Orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user
responsible for the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent Orders shall have the same force and effect as orders issued
pursuant to section
50.137(B)(2) below.
      (2)   Compliance Orders. When the Superintendent or his designee finds
that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the chapter or a
permit or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are
properly operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the non-compliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and
management practices.
      (3)   Cease and Desist Orders. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in non-compliance to: a)
comply forthwith, or b) take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as
may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation,
including halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.138 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or his designee may issue to any user who causes or
contributes to violations of this chapter, wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place of a hearing to be held by the Superintendent regarding the
violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action, and directing the user to show cause, before the Superintendent, why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of the industrial user. Whether or not a duly notified
industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement action may
be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service will be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated.
Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.139 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance Bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability Insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93)
§ 50.140 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's Enforcement Response Plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 10-11-1, passed 10-10-11)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.150 WATER RATE SCHEDULE.
   There shall be in effect a schedule of monthly rates and charges for the use
and service of the municipal water system of the city as follows:
   (A)   For users inside the city limits the rates shall be as follows:
 
Minimum for 2,000 Gallons (or any part thereof) $16.90
Next 1,000 Gallons  @                           $7.94 per M. Gal.
Next 2,000 Gallons  @                           $7.00 per M. Gal.
Next 10,000 Gallons @                           $6.24 per M. Gal.
Next 10,000 Gallons @                           $6.08 per M. Gal.
Next 25,000 Gallons @                           $5.86 per M. Gal.
All thereafter      @                           $5.86 per M. Gal.
 
   Said rates shall become effective for utility bills mailed in late July of
2012 which are due by August 15, 2012.
   (B)   The minimum monthly charge for every connection to the water system
within the city limits shall be $16.90, for which the person connected to the
system shall be entitled to use two thousand (2,000) gallons of water or any
part thereof.
   (C)   All of the rates set forth in division (A) above shall be adjusted for
the change in the Consumer Price Index as maintained and reported by the United
States Department of Labor and as reported to all local governments by the
Kentucky Department for Local Government (DLG) in February of each year for the
preceding calendar year. The percentage of increase or decrease as set forth in
the letter from DLG shall be applied to the above rate table to develop the new
rates to be used. The initial implementation of the automatic rate increase or
decrease shall become effective and be used for the billings mailed on or about
July 1, 2003. For all future years, the increase or decrease shall be effective
and be used with the billings mailed on or about April 1 or each such
subsequent year.
   (D)   The city shall pay a fire hydrant rental of one hundred sixteen
dollars and sixty-seven cents ($116.67) per month, payable monthly, which is at
the rate of one thousand four hundred dollars ($1,400.00) per year.
   (E)   The rates for the use and service of the municipal water system for
users outside the city limits shall be as follows:
 
Minimum for 2,000 Gallons (or any part thereof) $21.76
Next 1,000 Gallons  @                           $10.62 per M. Gal.
Next 2,000 Gallons  @                           $8.86 per M. Gal.
Next 10,000 Gallons @                           $7.87 per M. Gal.
Next 10,000 Gallons @                           $7.70 per M. Gal.
Next 25,000 Gallons @                           $7.54 per M. Gal.
All thereafter      @                           $7.54 per M. Gal.
 
Said rates shall become effective for utility bills mailed in late July of 2012
which are due by August 15, 2012.
   (F)   All of the rates set forth in division (E) above shall be adjusted for
the change in the Consumer Price Index as maintained and reported by the United
States Department of Labor and as reported to all local governments by the
Kentucky Department for Local Government (DLG) in February of each year for the
preceding calendar year. The percentage of increase or decrease as set forth in
the letter from DLG shall be applied to the above rate table to develop the new
rates to be used. The initial implementation of the automatic rate increase or
decrease shall become effective and be used for the billings mailed on or about
July 1, 2003. For all future years, the increase or decrease shall be effective
and be used with the billings mailed on or about April 1 or each such
subsequent year.
   (G)   The minimum monthly charge for every connection to the water system
outside the city shall be $21.76, for which the person connected to the system
shall be entitled to use two thousand (2,000) gallons of water or any part
thereof.
   (H)   (1)   There shall be a three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00)
connection for each new customer located within the city connected to a gravity
sewer system.
      (2)   There shall be a five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) connection
charge for each new customer outside the city connected to a gravity sewer
system.
      (3)   The connection fee for all customers on a pressure sewer system
shall be the sum of the following:
         (a)   The actual cost to the city of the materials, including but not
limited to: grinder pump, service line up to 200 feet from the main line,
fittings, electrical connections;
         (b)   A per foot cost of $ 1.20 for installation of 1.5 inch service
line in excess of 200 feet from the main line; and
         (c)   A per foot cost of $4 for the lead wire for any distance beyond
32 feet for the connection of the Electrical Disconnect Box for the grinder
pump.
      (4)   All customers connecting to a pressure sewer system shall be
required to sign an installation agreement with the city’s Utility System prior
to the commencement of the installation process. the agreement shall describe
the services to be provided by the Utility, the responsibilities of the
property owner, and shall grant right of access to the property for the Utility
to perform the work necessary for installation, maintenance, repair or
replacement of the system.
   (I)   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the facilities of
the municipal waterworks. No connection to the water system shall be permitted
or made except on a fully metered basis.
   (J)   See Chapter 54 for unified system of billing, payment, collection and
discontinuance of services for utility services.
(Ord. 1-84-2, passed 1-16-64; Am. Ord. 12-89-1, passed 12-27-89; Am. Ord. 4-95-
1, passed 4-12-95; Am. Ord. 4-99-2, passed 4-5-99; Am. Ord. 7-99-1, passed - -;
Am. Ord. 7-00-3, passed 7-10-00; Am. Ord. 7-02- 1, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 8-
02-1, passed 8-12-02; Am. Ord. 6-03-2, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 6-05-3, passed
6-24-05; Am. Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09; Am. Ord. 3-10-3, passed 3-8-10; Am.
Ord. 6-12-5, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord. 4-14-1, passed 4-14-14)
§ 50.150A DEPOSIT FOR WATER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All water customers of the city shall be charged a deposit in the
amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for residential use and an amount equal
to projected two (2) month usage for commercial use, at the time request for
service is made to the Utility System. This deposit will be collected from both
renters and home owners, and will be required on any request for hookup to the
city water system.
   (B)   At the end of a period of two (2) years of satisfactory payment of all
utility bills presented to the customer by the Utility System, the Utility
System will return and refund to the customer in good standing the total city
water deposit of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for residential use and an
amount equal to projected two (2)month usage for commercial use, together with
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum from the date of receipt of
the deposit until such deposit is refunded. If the customer during the two (2)
year period has not been current on utility bills presented by the Utility
System, then no refund will be due until service to that customer is
discontinued, at which time the deposit will be applied to the outstanding
utility bill, with any surplus being paid over to a customer without interest,
and any deficiency being a continued obligation due and payable by the customer
to the Flemingsburg Utility System.
   (C)   Any customer who has been a customer of the Water System for less than
two (2) years at the time of passage of this section, and who has paid less
than the seventy-five dollars ($75.00) deposit for residential use and an
amount equal to projected two (2) month usage for commercial use, required
hereunder, shall pay to the city upon moving to any new city water service the
amount necessary to make the total deposit equal to the seventy-five dollars
($75.00)for residential use and an amount equal to projected two-month usage
for commercial use, now required. At the end of two (2) years from the date the
additional payment is made, and upon satisfactory credit history and bill
payment to the Utility System, the customer will be refunded the deposit with
interest as provided above.
   (D)   Any customer who has been a customer of the Utility System for more
than two (2) years and who has satisfactory credit history and bill payment
history with the Utility System, shall not be charged a deposit upon moving
from one location of city service to another location of city service.
(Ord. 7-99-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09; Am. Ord. 4-19-1,
passed 4-8-19; Am. Ord. 2-21-1, passed 2-8-21)
§ 50.151 EXPLANATION OF SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer service charges shall be charges levied on all users who
discharge, cause or permit the discharge of sewage into the public sewage
treatment system.
   (B)   Sewer service charges shall be comprised of a system of user charges,
excessive strength surcharges, and a system of charges for debt service.
   (C)   Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
      "BOD. (Biochemical Oxygen Demand)." The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at 20oC, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      "NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER." Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of
not more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than
300 mg/l and an ammonia-nitrogen concentration of not more than 25 mg/l and
oil/grease concentration of not more than 100 mg/l.
      "OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE." Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement as defined below.
      "REPLACEMENT." Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
      "RESIDENTIAL USER." Any contributor to Flemingsburg's treatment works
whose lot, parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling
purposes only.
      "COMMERCIAL USER." All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments.
      "INDUSTRIAL USER (IU)." A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act.
      "INSTITUTIONAL USER." Includes social, charitable, religious, and
educational activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes,
penal institutions and similar institutional users.
      "GOVERNMENTAL USER." Includes legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of Federal, State and Local governments.
      "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
      "SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS)." Solids that either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      "TREATMENT WORKS." Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
      "USEFUL LIFE." The estimated period during which a treatment works will
be operated.
      "USER CHARGE." The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
      "WATER METER." A water volume measuring and furnished and/or installed by
a user and approved by the city.
      "DEBT SERVICE." Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works
to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   (D)   Excessive strength surcharges shall mean charges levied on users of
the sewage treatment system whose contribution contains biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), suspended solids (SS), or ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) or other
pollutants in concentrations which exceed limits specified herein for such
pollutants and who are permitted to make such contributions to the system in
accordance with the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   (E)   Charges for debt service shall mean charges levied on users of the
sewage treatment system to support the annual debt service obligations of the
system.
(Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94)
§ 50.152 SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user of the sewage
treatment system within the city limits. This schedule includes rates for user
charges and rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered
or estimated water consumption, which for this amendment are now combined.
SEWER RATE SCHEDULE - INSIDE CITY LIMITS
(Based on Water Consumption)
Rates Per Month
Water Consumption    2011-12 Combined 2012-13 Combined 2013-14 Combined Rate
                     Rate             Rate
First 2,000 Gals./   $14.48           $16.65           $19.98
Mo.
Next 3,000 Gals./Mo. $5.60            $6.44            $7.73
Next 5,000 Gals./Mo. $5.19            $5.96            $6.86
Next 15,000 Gals./   $4.82            $5.54            $6.65
Mo.
Next 25,000 Gals./   $4.46            $5.13            $6.16
Mo.
Next 50,000 Gals./   $4.07            $4.68            $5.62
Mo.
 
   Said rates for 2011-12 shall become effective on July 1, 2011 and shall be
reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of 2011 which are due by August
15, 2011; and said rates for 2012-13 shall become effective on July 1 of 2012
and shall be reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of 2012 which are
due by August 15, 2012; and said rates for 2013-14 shall become effective on
July 1 of 2013 and shall be reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of
2013 which are due by August 15, 2013. Note: The above rates are inclusive of
modification in the spring of each year as modified by Part C herein for all
three fiscal years above, unless later modified by appropriate ordinance of the
city.
   (B)   The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user of the sewage
treatment system outside the city limits. This schedule includes rates for user
charges and rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered
or estimated water consumption.
SEWER RATE SCHEDULE - OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
(Based on Water Consumption)
Rates Per Month
Water Consumption    2011-12 Combined 2012-13 Combined 2013-14 Combined Rate
                     Rate             Rate
First 2,000 Gals./   $16.10           $18.52           $22.22
Mo.
Next 3,000 Gals./Mo. $6.29            $7.23            $8.68
Next 5,000 Gals./Mo. $5.83            $6.70            $8.04
Next 15,000 Gals./   $4.82            $5.54            $6.65
Mo.
Next 25,000 Gals./   $4.99            $5.74            $6.89
Mo.
Next 50,000 Gals./   $4.61            $5.30            $6.36
Mo.
 
Said rates for 2011-12 shall become effective on July 1, 2011 and shall be
reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of 2011 which are due by August
15, 2011; and said rates for 2012-13 shall become effective on July 1 of 2012
and shall be reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of 2012 which are
due by August 15, 2012; and said rates for 2013-14 shall become effective on
July 1 of 2013 and shall be reflected on utility bills mailed in late July of
2013 which are due by August 15, 2013. Note: The above rates are inclusive of
modification in the spring of each year as modified by Part C herein for all
three fiscal years above, unless later modified by appropriate ordinance of the
city.
   (C)   All of the rates set forth hereinabove shall be adjusted for the
change in the Consumer Price Index as maintained and reported by the United
States Department of Labor and as reported to all local governments by the
Kentucky Department for Local Government (DLG) in February of each year for the
preceding calendar year. The percentage of increase or decrease as set forth in
the letter from DLG shall be applied to the above rate table to develop the new
rates to be used. The initial implementation of the automatic rate increase or
decrease shall become effective and be used for the billings mailed on or about
July 1, 2003. For all future years, the increase or decrease shall be effective
and be used with the billings mailed on or about April 1 or each such
subsequent year. If the increase or decrease applied hereby shall be
insufficient to generate the rate required by the lending authorities of the
city to pay the required debt service, then and in that event the balance of
the rate increase required on July 1, 2011 and the next two July 1
anniversaries, then the rates shown herein for 2011, 2012, and 2013 shall
increase to the stated amount in the above tables.
   (D)   There shall be a three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) connection
charge for each new residential sewer customer located within the city
connected to such sewer system (Class A).
   (E)   There shall be a five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) connection
charge for each new residential sewer customer outside the city connected to
such sewer system (Class A).
   (F)   There shall be a three hundred dollars ($300.00) charge for Class B
customers located within the city. This charge shall be comprised of a one
hundred dollars ($100.00) connection fee and a two hundred dollars ($200.00)
Wastewater Contribution Permit fee (WCP). The WCP fee must be renewed annually
at a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) WCP fee and connection fee must be paid upon
submission of the WCP application. Class B being all non-residential users
including all commercial and industrial facilities.
(Am. Ord. 3-10-2, passed 3-8-2010; Am. Ord. 6-11-3, passed 6-13-11)
§ 50.153 METHOD OF BILLING SEWER SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on the following
formula, with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users:
A(E-300) + B(F-300) + C(G-25) + D(H-100) X .00834 X I = Surcharge Payment ($/
mo.)
   When formula components are as follows:
   A = Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound.
   B = Surcharge rate for SS, in $/pound.
   C = Surcharge rate for NH3-N, in $/pound.
   D = Surcharge rate for oil/grease in $/pound.
   E = User's average BOD concentration in mg/l.
   F = User's average SS concentration, in mg/1.
   G = User's average NH3-N concentration, in mg/1.
   H = User's average oil/grease concentration, in mg/l.
   I = User's monthly flow to sewage works in 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 300 mg/l of BOD, 300 mg/1 of SS, or 25 mg/1 of NH3-N or
100 mg/l of oil/grease.
   (C)   All users shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the user rate, and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
(Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94)
§ 50.154 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review not less than annually the sewage contribution
of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the sewage works, debt
service obligations, and sewer service charges. Based on such review, the city
shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer service charges to
accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among users of the treatment system, and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system and to meet debt service
requirements, and
      (3)   The revenue collected, as a result of the user charges levied,
shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the "Operation,
Maintenance and Replacement Fund".
      (4)   Fiscal year balances in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund shall be returned to their
respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for
operation, maintenance and replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be
adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their respective
accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies were
borrowed.
   (C)   Excessive strength surcharges shall be reviewed at the time of, and in
conjunction with, the review of sewer service charges. Surcharge rates shall be
revised when necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
(Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94)
§ 50.155 AMENDMENTS TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be amended, as necessary, to comply with Federal
Regulations.
(Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94)
EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.170 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures through the city in the event a
shortage is declared. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.171 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADVISORY." Conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious water
supply shortages.
   "ALERT." The raw water supplies (i.e., streamflow, reservoir levels or
groundwater levels) are consistently below seasonal averages, and if they
continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   "ALLOTMENT." The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over
any applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
subchapter.
   "ANY WATER." Any type of water, including fresh water, brackish water,
wastewater, or reclaimed water.
   "BRACKISH WATER." Water containing more than 1,000 parts per million of
dissolved salts.
   "CUSTOMER." Any person using water for any purpose from the city's water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   "EMERGENCY." Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   "EXCESS USE." The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this subchapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   "FRESH WATER." Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not
been previously used, other than brackish water.
   "NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER." Commercial, industrial, institutional, public,
and all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   "RATIONING." Procedures established to provide for the equitable
distribution of critically-limited water supplies in order to balance demand
and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is
available to preserve public health and safety.
   "RECLAIMED WATER." Wastewater which has been treated to allow reuse.
   "RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER." Any customer who receives water service for a
single- or multi-family dwelling unit. The term "RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER" does not
include educational or other institutions, hotels, motels, or similar
commercial establishments.
   "SERVICE INTERRUPTION." The temporary suspension of water supply, or
reduction of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer,
portion of a water system, or entire system.
   "TREATED WATER." Water purified by the Municipal Water Treatment Plant, and
which is offered for sale to customers.
   "WASTE OF WATER." Includes, but is not limited to, permitting water to
escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain, or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   "WASTEWATER." Water which has been previously used for industrial,
municipal, domestic, or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface
or groundwater source.
   "WATER." Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or withdrawal permit.
   "WATER USE CLASSES." Classes shall be established as follows:
      (1)   Class l: Essential Treated Water Uses.
         (a)   Domestic use. Treated water necessary to sustain human life and
the lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation.
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Firefighting.
            2.   Health and public protection purposes, if specifically
approved by health officials and the municipal governing body.
      (2)   Class 2: Socially or Economically Important Uses of Treated Water.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3.
         (b)   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private) with treated
water.
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock.
            2.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than treated water
are not available or feasible to use.
            3.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the extent
that sources of water other than treated water are not available or feasible to
use.
            4.   Use of treated water, at a minimum rate necessary to implement
revegetation following earth moving, where such revegetation is required
pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law
or regulation. to the extent that sources of water other than treated water are
not available or feasible to use.
         (c)   Filling and operation of certain swimming pools.
            1.   Residential pools which serve more than 25
dwelling units.
            2.   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation.
            3.   Municipal pools.
         (d)   Washing of motor vehicles. Commercial car and truck washes,
unrestricted hours of operation.
         (e)   Commercial laundromats. Unrestricted hours of operation.
         (f)   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places. Unrestricted hours of
operation.
         (g)   Air conditioning.
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season.
            2.   Make-up of water during the cooling season.
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
         (h)   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments. Unrestricted operation.
      (3)   Class 3: Non-Essential Uses of Treated Water.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
         (b)   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private). Gardens,
lawns, parks, golf courses, playing fields, and other recreational areas.
Exceptions:
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock.
            2.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than treated water
are not available or feasible to use.
            3.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the extent
that sources of water other than treated water are not available or feasible to
use.
            4.   Use of treated water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
revegetation following earth moving, where such revegetation is required
pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law
or regulation, to the extent that sources of water other than treated water are
not available or feasible to use.
         (c)   Filling and operation of private swimming pools.
         (d)   Washing of motor vehicles. Automobiles, trucks, boats, and
trailers.
         (e)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places.
Exceptions: Specific request by a customer.
         (f)   Fire hydrants. Any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps and
testing fire apparatus. Exceptions:
            1.   Firefighting.
            2.   Health protection purposes, if specifically approved by the
health officials of the municipality.
            3.   Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department, if in the
interest of public safety and is approved by the municipal governing body.
         (g)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants. Exceptions: As needed to ensure
public health and safety, and approved by health officials and the municipal
governing body.
         (h)   Air conditioning. Refilling cooling towers after draining.
Exceptions:
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season.
            2.   Make-up of water during the cooling season.
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.172 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the City Council finds that a potential shortage of water supply is
indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
advisory exists, and that the Superintendent shall, on a daily basis, monitor
the supply and demands upon that supply. In addition, the Mayor is authorized
to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water conservation
measures (as set forth in §
50.180) to limit water use (especially Class 3 uses) and eliminate the waste of
water. Such a resolution shall be published in the official city newspaper, and
may be publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate
method for making such resolutions public.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.173 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the City Council finds raw water supplies (i.e., streamflow,
reservoir levels, or groundwater levels) to be consistently below seasonal
averages, and if they continue to decline and may not be adequate to meet
normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water
shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to encourage voluntary water
conservation measures defined under the advisory declaration, and further shall
impose a ban on all Class 3 water uses as defined in §
50.171 for the duration of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by
resolution of the City Council. Declaration of these resolutions shall follow
the guidelines for declaration in §
50.172.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.174 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Council finds that raw water supplies are below the level
necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage emergency exists.
Class 1, essential uses (as defined in §
50.171) shall be identified, in specific, as targets for voluntary conservation
initiatives. Also, all Class 2, Socially or Economically Important Uses (as
defined in §
50.171) shall be banned in addition to the Class 3, Non-Essential Uses (as
defined in §
50.171). These restrictions shall be considered ongoing until the emergency is
declared ended by resolution of the City Council. Declaration of these
resolutions shall follow the guidelines for declaration in §
50.172.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.175 DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the City Council finds a need to provide for the equitable
distribution of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand
and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is
available to preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to
declare by resolution the adoption of mandatory rationing.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.176 OBJECTIVES OF RATIONING.
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service.
   (B)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should shortages
continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be emphasized
that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid and
attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water cooperation of all water customers in
the emergency area.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.177 WATER USE RATIONING FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Metered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   The water allotment for residential customers shall be calculated
by taking each customer's average water use over the preceding 12 months,
divided by the number of days in the 12-month period to yield the average daily
usage. The average daily usage will be reduced by 50% for each residential
household.
      (2)   Residential water customers are required to provide city and
utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to this
rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all reasonable
efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters
shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the
meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the dwelling unit
(household) allotment will be reduced to 30 gallons per day.
      (3)   Where the residential water allotment provided under this section
would create an extraordinary hardship, as in the case of special health-
related requirements, the water customer may apply to the city for an exemption
or variance from these requirements. If it is found that the allotment provided
in this section would impose an extraordinary hardship, a revised allotment for
the particular customer may be established. Any person aggrieved by a decision
relating to such an exemption or variance rendered by the city rendering water
service beyond its corporate limits, may file a complaint with the City Council
in accordance with the city's normal administrative procedures.
   (B)   Suggested conservation measures. See §
50.180.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.178 WATER USE RATIONING FOR NONRESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Nonresidential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 50% of use levels during the previous 12-month average as calculated by the
city from the past 12 months water bills.
   (B)   It is the primary responsibility of-each nonresidential water customer
to meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner possible.
   (C)   The city will establish a water allotment for each nonresidential
water customer, based upon a required further reduction of water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer during the past 12 months, or the last
recorded use level up to 12 months if no meter readings were recorded on the
customer for the full prior 12 month period.
   (D)   Each nonresidential water user shall provide access to city personnel
for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
subchapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to arrange
for access.
   (E)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be obtained
without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and safety, the
nonresidential customer may apply to the city for a variance. For these
purposes "EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP" means a permanent damage to property or
economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne by
other water users subject to this water rationing ordinance. If the further
reduction would cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a
variance may be granted and a revised water use reduction requirement for the
particular customer may be established. Any person aggrieved by a decision
relating to such a variance rendered by the city rendering water service beyond
its corporate limits may file a complaint with the City Council in accordance
with the city's normal administrative procedures.
   (F)   The city will provide each nonresidential customer suggested means to
reduce usage levels. (See §
50.180 .)
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.179 WATER USE RATIONING FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and nonresidential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution's water usage.
   (C)   The city will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. (See §
50.180 )
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.180 WATER SHORTAGE CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   During water shortages as described in this subchapter, the Mayor may:
   (A)   Direct residential users to adopt the following conservation measures:
      (1)   Locate and repair all leaks in faucets, toilets, and water-using
appliances.
      (2)   Adjust all water-using appliances to use the minimum amount of
water in order to achieve the appliance's purpose.
      (3)   Use automatic washing machines and dishwashers only with full
loads.
      (4)   Take shorter showers and shallower baths.
      (5)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth, etc.
      (6)    Turn off shower while soaping up.
      (7)   Set temperature settings of hot water at least 10 degrees lower to
discourage lengthy shower-taking.
      (8)   Where plumbing fixtures can accommodate them, install flow-
restricting or other water-saving devices.
      (9)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses about
five gallons. Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts.
      (10)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
      (11)   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator.
   (B)   Direct nonresidential users to adopt the following conservation
measures:
      (1)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Give special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners, and furnaces.
      (2)   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut
off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
      (3)   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.181 ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   The City Utility Superintendent will have primary responsibility for
monitoring compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementations of temporary
service interruptions:
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this subchapter, the city is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruptions to all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist.
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved.
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   In the event it is determined that temporary service interruptions
are necessary, the city shall notify its customers through the public media
(newspaper and radio) at least one day prior to the temporary service
interruptions, that a planned, temporary service interruption is to be imposed.
Such notice shall:
         (a)   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruptions will occur;
         (b)   State the time when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence, and the time such interruptions will cease; been
achieved.
         (c)   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions are
to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if only part of the
system will experience planned, temporary service interruptions, identify
geographic boundaries within which such interruptions will occur; and
         (d)   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period of such interruptions and for
such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to the
system.
      (3)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this subchapter, it must provide for the continued
delivery of water to health care facilities within the area affected by such
interruptions, by means of any adequate, alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, it
must make provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of such
water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or nonresidential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following excess use charges.
      (1)   Excess use charges will be collected based on the amount by which a
customer's use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to the local
water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the following
schedule:
Excess Usage Per Month   Charge for Excess
First 2,000 gallons or   $7 per 1,000 gallons
portion thereof   or portion thereof
Each 1,000 gallons, or   $15 portion thereof,
there after
      (2)   Any monies collected through excess use charges shall not be
accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
   (D)   In addition to the excess use charge, noncompliance with the water
rationiong provisions of this subchapter will result in the following:
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess uses, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed forty-eight (48)
hours, or, if the customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed
in the customer's service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost
incurred to interrupt or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and
remove a flow restrictor, shall be assessed to the water customer.
   (E)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this subchapter.
   (F)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing any excess use charge or other remedy for noncompliance with the
requirements of this subchapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The city shall adopt procedures which provide an opportunity for
the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or provide
evidence of circumstances beyond the customer's control which resulted in the
violation. A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept,
and a written notice of the city's final decision and action in such cases
shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision or action of the city
may file a complaint with the City Council in accordance with the city's normal
administrative procedures.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.182 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in §§
50.172 through
50.175, the City Council shall have the power to adopt shortage water rates by
ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such rates may provide for, but
not be limited to: higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing
block rates); uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. 12-83- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.183 MAYOR MAY PROMULGATE REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
50.172 through
50.175, the Mayor is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, any water supply
shortage resolution, or water shortage rate ordinance. Such regulations shall
be subject to the approval of the City Council at its next regular or emergency
meeting.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.184 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subchapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
subchapter, shall be subject to the following provisions and the penalties
provided in §
50.999.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Utilities Superintendent, or other city official or
officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this subchapter or a
water supply shortage resolution learns of any violation of any water use
restriction imposed pursuant to this subchapter, a written notice of the
violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and
mailed to the customer of record and to any other person known to the city who
is responsible for the violation or its correction. The notice shall describe
the violation and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or
within such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the city official designated as a hearing officer by
the governing body;
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before termination
is ordered; and
      (3)   The hearing officer shall make findings of fact and order whether
service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid for the reconnection of
any water service terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of
subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second violation and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each
additional violation.
(Ord. 12-86- , passed 12-1-86)
§ 50.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Written Notice.
      (1)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the
Superintendent or his designee with written notice stating the nature of the
violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of
this notice.
      (2)   As contained in §
50.136, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in §§
50.135 -
50.139, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violations
of this chapter. The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of
violators in the local newspaper to administrative fines of up to $1,000.00 per
day per violation.
   (B)   Revocation of Permit:
      (1)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder, may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system. Such termination
may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. Said user may
also have water service terminated.
      (2)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
         (a)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his discharge;
         (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations,
or wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or,
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Destruction of POTW. No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s)
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct. It shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does not require
proof of specific intent to obtain conviction.
   (D)   Legal Action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, federal or state Pretreatment Requirements or any
order of the city, the city may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate Court of this jurisdiction.
   (E)   Injunctive Relief. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate the provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel may petition the Court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the user.
   (F)   Civil Penalties:
      (1)   Any user who has significantly violated or continues to violate
this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000.00 per day plus
actual damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the
violation continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and
damages, the Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs, court reporter's fees, and other expenses associated with the
enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent may petition the Court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   (G)   (1)   Violations - General:
         (a)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year or both.
         (b)   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false
statements, representation or certification of any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter, or Wastewater Contribution Permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
$1,000 and not more than $5,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 12
months, or by both.
         (c)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than three (3) years or both.
   (H)   Liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of such violation, including attorney's fees and court costs
unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law. This civil liability is as
provided by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 5-94-1, passed 6-6-94)
   (I)   Any industrial user who violates any provisions of this chapter, any
orders or permits issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirements
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
more than $500.00 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one
year, or both.
(Ord. 7-91-1, passed 7-1-91)
CHAPTER 51: GAS
Section
   
51.01   Bond ordinance adopted by reference
   
51.02   Schedule of rates and charges for natural gas service
   
51.03   Deposit required
   
51.04   [Reserved]
   
51.05   Application of rates
   
51.06   No free service
   
51.07   [Reserved]
   
51.08   [Reserved]
   
51.09   [Reserved]
   
51.10   Utility bills to be paid prior to customer moving to new location
   
51.11   Tampering with gas service equipment
   
51.12   Water and sewer rates to remain in effect
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Utility services, unified system of billing, payment, collection and
discontinuance of service, see
Ch. 54
§ 51.01 BOND ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance, passed July 1, 1968, providing for the issuance of bonds for the
construction of a natural gas distribution system for the city is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set out at
length herein. Copies are on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and
are available for public inspection during normal business hours.
§ 51.02 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a schedule of rates and charges for the
services and facilities furnished by the natural gas distribution system
portion of the combined and consolidated municipal utilities system as follows:
      (1)   Natural gas service rate for customers inside the city limits:
First 1,000 cubic feet gas per month, $9.665, (minimum)
Next 4,000 cubic feet gas per month, $6.993, per MCF.
Next 20,000 cubic feet gas per month, $6.853, per MCF.
Next 25,000 cubic feet gas per month, $6.653, per MCF.
Next 50,000 cubic feet gas per month, $6.483, per MCF.
All over 100,000 cubic feet gas per month, $6.313, per MCF.
      (2)   Natural gas service rates for customers outside the city limits
(except Mayslick customers)
First 1,000 cubic feet gas per month      $10.104, (minimum)
Next 4,000 cubic feet gas per month      $7.311,   per MCF.
Next 20,000 cubic feet gas per month   $7,133, per MCF.
Next 25,000 cubic feet gas per month   $6,955,    per MCF.
Next 50,000 cubic feet gas per month   $6.778,    per MCF.
All over 100,000 cubic feet gas per month   $6.560,    per MCF.
      (3)   Natural gas service rates for customers outside the city limits
(Mayslick customers, Billing Book 8)
First 1,000 cubic feet gas per month      $11.62,   (minimum)
Next 4,000 cubic feet gas per month      $8.41, per MCF.
Next 20,000 cubic feet gas per month   $8.20, per MCF.
Next 25,000 cubic feet gas per month   $8.00, per MCF.
Next 50,000 cubic feet gas per month   $7.80, per MCF.
All over 100,000 cubic feet gas per month   $7.54, per MCF.
      (4)   Natural gas service connection fees. The fee charged for each
connection made to the natural gas distribution system of the city shall be
three hundred fifty dollars ($50.00) for residential service within the
official corporate limits of the city. The natural gas service connection fee
for residential service outside of the official corporate limits of the city
shall be five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00). There will be an additional
charge for any connection made requiring a metering system larger than
residential services. The additional charge would be based on the actual
difference in cost between the metering device installed and that of the
residential metering device.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79; Am. Ord. 10-82-1, passed 10-4-82; Am. Ord. 11-88-
1, passed 8-1-88; Am. Ord. 12-89-3, passed 12-27-89; Am. Ord. 4-99-4, passed 4-
5-99; Am. Ord. 7-00-1, passed 7-3-00; Am. Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09)
§ 51.03 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All natural gas customers of the city shall be charged a deposit in
the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for residential service, one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for residential service with only gas wall
heater, gas logs, gas cook stove, etc. and an amount equal to projected two (2)
month usage for commercial service, at the time request for service is made to
the utility system. This deposit will be collected from both renters and home
owners, and will be required on any request for hookup to the natural gas
system.
   (B)   At the end of a period of two (2) years of satisfactory payment of all
utility bills presented to the customer by the utility system, the utility
system will return and refund to the customer in good standing the total
natural gas deposit set forth in division (A) above, together with interest at
the rate of six (6) percent per annum from date of receipt of the deposit until
such deposit is refunded. If the customer during the two-year period has not
been current on utility bills presented by the utility system, then no refund
will be due until service to that customer is discontinued, at which time the
deposit will be applied to the outstanding utility bill, with any surplus being
paid over to the customer without interest, and any deficiency being a
continued obligation due and payable by the customer to the utility system.
   (C)   Any customer who has been a customer of the natural gas system for
less than two (2) years at the time of passage of this ordinance, and who has
paid less than the deposits set forth in division (A) above shall pay to the
city upon moving to any new natural gas service such amount as is necessary to
make the total deposit equal to the deposit now required. At the end of two (2)
years from the date such additional payment is made, and upon satisfactory
credit history and bill payment to the utility system, such customer will be
refunded the deposit with interest as provided above.
   (D)   (1)   The city, based on previous good credit elsewhere, may allow a
residential gas customer to pay the three hundred dollar ($300.00) deposit
required herein over time as follows: one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) upon
opening the account, with one (1) one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) billing
immediately following opening of the account.
      (2)   Utility deposits paid from the above schedule are refundable to the
customer based on good credit history with the city for a period of twenty-four
(24) monthly billings, and if the deposit is not needed to credit against the
customer’s billing. Deposits made prior to December 31, 2023 shall bear
interest at one percent (1%) per annum, and will be refunded with the said
interest within thirty (30) days after the twenty-four (24) monthly billings
and no credit problems. Deposits made after January 1, 2024, shall not bear
interest.
(Ord. 1-84-3, passed 1-16-84; Am. Ord. 6-99-6, passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 7-99-2,
passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09; Am. Ord. 4-19-1, passed 4-8-19;
Am. Ord. 2-21-1, passed 2-8-21; Am. Ord. 10-23-3, passed 10-9-23)
§ 51.04 [RESERVED].
§ 51.05 APPLICATION OF RATES.
   The rates and charges as stated above shall apply to all residential,
commercial, and industrial establishments in any manner directly or indirectly
connected with the natural gas distribution of the city.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
§ 51.06 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the municipal natural gas
distribution system and no connections to such system shall be allowed except
on a fully metered basis.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
§ 51.07 [RESERVED].
§ 51.08 [RESERVED].
§ 51.09 [RESERVED].
§ 51.10 UTILITY BILLS TO BE PAID PRIOR TO CUSTOMER MOVING TO NEW LOCATION.
   Any customer of the utility system who moves from one location of city
service to another location of city service shall not be allowed water, sewer,
or natural gas connections at the new location unless all outstanding utility
bills to the utility system have been paid in full. If, due to billing cycle,
the utility system is unable to present to the customer a final bill for the
old location prior to connection at the new location, the utility system may
add the outstanding bill for utility service from the old location to the first
bill for utility services at the new location, and failure by the customer to
pay the total bill upon its due date constitutes grounds for discontinuance of
service to the new location as under any other type of disconnect procedure.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
§ 51.11 TAMPERING WITH GAS SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association,
except city utility employees while working in their capacity as such, to
tamper with the gas meters and valves appurtenant thereto, or to make any hook-
ups at the meter without the express written consent of the city, or the direct
supervision of the work by the city utilities.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
§ 51.12 WATER AND SEWER RATES TO REMAIN IN EFFECT.
   All the provisions establishing rates and charges for water and sewer
service as set forth in
Chapter 50, to the extent same are not in conflict with the provisions hereof,
shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating §
51.11 shall be fined not less than $1.00 nor more than $50.00 for each offense.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 11-5-79)
CHAPTER 52: UTILITY LINES
Section
   
52.01   Developers to have utility lines inspected and approved
   
52.02   Hardware purchased from city to be paid for at time of purchase
   
52.03   Utility lines to be deeded to city
   
52.04   No service to customers through lines not deeded
   
52.05   Application of regulations to land outside corporate limits
   
52.06   Variance
§ 52.01 DEVELOPERS TO HAVE UTILITY LINES INSPECTED AND APPROVED.
   Developers of land located in the corporate limits of the city who install
utility lines (water, sewer or gas) with the anticipation that the city will
then take over the lines for maintenance and the furnishing of utilities, must
have the utility lines inspected and approved by the city utilities
Superintendent prior to burying of the lines underground.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
§ 52.02 HARDWARE PURCHASED FROM CITY TO BE PAID FOR AT TIME OF PURCHASE.
   The city can furnish some pipes, valves, or other hardware for utility line
installation, but any such supplies purchased by the developer from the city
must be paid for at the time of purchase. There will be no credit terms.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
§ 52.03 UTILITY LINES TO BE DEEDED TO CITY.
   After installation of utility lines by the developer, the utility lines must
be deeded to the city for full ownership rights, together with at least 20-foot
wide easement to provide access for maintenance and to provide for the right of
the city to tie into and extend such utility lines for utility expansion as the
city deems necessary and proper.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
§ 52.04 NO SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS THROUGH LINES NOT DEEDED.
   The city will not serve customers through utility lines which have not been
deeded to the city under the terms required in §
52.03.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
§ 52.05 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS TO LAND OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The requirements of § §
52.01 through
52.04 are also applicable to developers of land located outside the corporate
limits of the city if the developers anticipate that the city will be asked to
take over the lines for maintenance and the furnishings of city utilities, and
the Planning Commission shall enforce the requirements herein if the developer
anticipates using city utilities.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
§ 52.06 VARIANCE.
   The City Council may grant a variance on the required easement width in §
52.03 on a case by case basis for lines installed prior to the enactment of
this chapter.
(Ord. 8-83-1, passed 8-1-83)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Declaration of authority
   
53.03   Garbage collection mandatory
   
53.04   Enforcement by superintendent; right of entry
   
53.05   Scope
   
53.06   Hazardous waste
   
53.07   Accumulation of solid waste
   
53.08   Collection and disposal of solid waste within the city
   
53.09   Prohibited practices
Fees
   
53.20   Collection fee imposed
   
53.21   Purpose of collection fees
   
53.22   Requirement and presumption of subscription
   
53.23   Classification and charges
   
53.24   Payment of charges
   
53.25   Discontinuation of service
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   "CITY." The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky; a municipality of the fourth
class organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "HAZARDOUS WASTE." Means any discarded material or material intended to be
discarded or substance or combination of such substances intended to be
discarded, in any form which because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible,
or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed; provided that household
waste meeting the definition of 401 KAR 31:010 Section 4 (2)(a) is not
hazardous waste.
   Statutory reference: KRS Chapter 224 and amendments or replacements thereof;
KAR Title 401 and replacements thereof.
   "LANDLORD." Any person, as defined herein, owning real property within the
city limits, which property is rented or leased to other persons for
residential, commercial, industrial, government or institutional purposes.
   "PERSON." Any individual including an agent, guardian, trustee or other
fiduciary of such individual, corporations, partnerships, associations, firms,
governmental entities including its subdivisions and agencies, institutions and
organizations producing, generating or accumulating garbage and refuse as
defined herein.
   "RESIDENCE, MOBILE HOME, APARTMENT." A single-family unit dwelling place. In
the application of monthly rates, each apartment unit, mobile home, and house
shall be treated as a separate dwelling unit.
   "SOLID WASTE." Shall be deemed and construed in the ordinary and generally
accepted meanings, which includes, but is not limited to, all unclean or
useless material which is discarded, and could threaten the public health and
safety or obstruct the public ways and sidewalks. The term shall include but
not be limited to, such items as waste paper, cardboard, ashes, metal cans,
bottles, and foods. Solid waste shall not include liquid waste, sewage, body
waste, hazardous waste as defined herein, tires, or demolition products.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The individual employed by the city under its personnel
policies and procedures ordinance as the Superintendent of Streets and
Sanitation Department whose duties and responsibilities are specified therein
and as further provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.02 DECLARATION OF AUTHORITY.
   It is hereby declared that the storage, collection and disposal of non-
hazardous solid waste generated within the corporate limits of the city is a
matter of public health and safety requiring the enactment and enforcement of
this solid waste collection ordinance under authority of KRS 82.082.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.03 GARBAGE COLLECTION MANDATORY.
   Solid waste collection by the city’s Streets and Sanitation Department shall
be mandatory at all residences, including single and multiple apartment units,
businesses, health care facilities, private offices, factories, plants (except
as otherwise provided in §
53.08(B) pertaining to certain commercial establishments) within the city
limits where solid waste may be produced and accumulated; provided, however,
the Superintendent may not be required to collect solid waste at any location
not fronting on a dedicated public way which has been accepted by the city or
which is maintained by any governmental agency.
   Governmental offices and agencies which are required to bid for garbage
collection and disposal service are permitted to accept the low bidder for
their services only if the low bidder's charges for said services are less than
the city's established rates.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91; Am. Ord. 6-12-1, passed 6-18-12)
§ 53.04 ENFORCEMENT BY SUPERINTENDENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (a) The Superintendent of the Streets and Sanitation Department, in order to
protect the health and safety of the people of the city, is authorized and
directed, by implementing and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, to
control the storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste within the city,
and to provide public nonhazardous solid waste collection from premises within
the city, so that the type and usual quantity of solid waste can be safely,
expeditiously and economically handled by the Street and Sanitation Department.
   (B)   The Superintendent or a duly-authorized representative of the city,
after proper identification, shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.05 SCOPE.
   All persons, dwellings, businesses, offices, industries and all other
locations generating, producing and accumulating solid waste located within the
city shall make use of the system of solid waste storage, collection, and
disposal, in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.06 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   Hazardous waste shall not be placed for collection by city:
   (A)   No person shall place for collection or otherwise permit, allow,
assist or facilitate any other person to place any hazardous waste for
collection by the city.
   (B)   The Superintendent or a duly-authorized representative of the city,
after proper identification, shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Mayor, Superintendent or other duly-authorized representative of
the city shall instruct the Street and Sanitation Department to withhold the
collection of any waste suspected of being hazardous until such time that the
person responsible for the generation of the suspect waste has adequately and
reasonably demonstrated to the city that the waste is not hazardous.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.07 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern the accumulation of solid
waste in the city:
   (A)   Regular containers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of owners, tenants, or persons in charge of
every dwelling, store, commercial building, health care facility, manufacturing
establishment, private and governmental office building and all other persons
in the city generating, producing or accumulating solid waste to place or cause
to be placed all waste solid waste accumulating on the premises in containers
of sufficient size and quantity to properly hold all solid waste generated at
that location during the period of time between scheduled collections.
Containers shall be of non-rusting, watertight metal, or rigid plastic, of a
substantial construction with tight-fitting covers sufficient to keep out
water, prevent disturbance by animals and the entrance of insects. The
containers shall be equipped with suitable handles by which they may be lifted,
shall be of such size as to be easily handled by one sanitation worker, and
shall not have a capacity of more than thirty-five (35) gallons and not
exceeding a total weight of forty (40) pounds when placed for collection. Any
collection of solid waste that does not comply with the requirements of this
section shall be collected only after prior approval of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Plastic bags tightly tied and of sufficient strength and durability
to contain without spillage solid waste not exceeding a total weight of forty
(40) pounds may be used in place of covered containers; provided that the
Superintendent shall upon prior notice require the use of regular covered
containers in the event that animals have on any occasion broken into plastic
bags placed for collection at any location, street or neighborhood within the
city.
   (B)   Bulk containers. It shall be the duty of owners, tenants, or persons
in charge of every dwelling, store, commercial building, health care facility,
manufacturing establishment, private and governmental office building, or other
location in the city to provide a bulk container for the storage or holding of
solid waste which cannot reasonably be held or stored by regular containers
identified in subsection (A) above between regularly scheduled pickups.
Permitted under this section are containers commonly known as "dumpsters" or
containers with similar design. Bulk containers shall not be used by more than
one dwelling, store, manufacturing establishment, office building, or other
location without the prior written consent of the Superintendent. Any
collection of solid waste that does not comply with the requirements of this
section shall be collected only after prior approval of the Superintendent.
   (C)   Containers maintained in good condition. Containers, whether bulk or
regular, shall be maintained in good condition. Any garbage container that does
not conform to the provision of this subchapter, or which has ragged or sharp
edges or any other defects which may hamper or injure the sanitation worker
collecting the contents thereof must be promptly replaced by a proper container
upon written notice from the city. If the containers are not replaced within
ten (10) days after delivery of the written notice, the nonconforming or
defective containers may be collected and disposed of by order of the
Superintendent.
   (D)   Location of containers for collection. Solid waste in the required
containers shall be set out on collection days at such places as shall be in
accordance with regulations published by the Superintendent. Containers placed
on the sidewalk shall be promptly removed therefrom after they have been
emptied.
   (E)   Scattering of solid waste prohibited. No person shall throw, place or
discard solid waste, garbage or other refuse in any street or other public
place or on any public or private property except in proper waste containers.
No person shall upset or turn the contents of any solid waste container on any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place.
   (F)   Removal of solid waste from containers. No person, other than the city
collection service, shall remove any solid waste from any container which has
been set out for collection without the consent of the occupant, owner, or
manager of the premises, unless specifically authorized in writing to do so by
the Superintendent.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.08 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN THE CITY.
   The following rules are established pertaining to collection and disposal of
solid waste within the city.
   (A)   Every person subject to this chapter shall utilize the solid waste
collection service of the city unless, on the date of enactment of this
chapter, the person was utilizing the services of a private and authorized
solid waste collection service. In the event the collection service of a
private and authorized solid waste collection service is interrupted or
terminated for any reason, then the solid waste collection service provided by
the city shall be utilized. Any residence, mobile home, or apartment desiring
to continue use of a private and authorized solid waste collection service is
interrupted or terminated for any reason, then the solid waste collection
service provided by the city shall be utilized. Any residence, mobile home, or
apartment desiring to continue use of a private and authorized garbage
collection service after the date of enactment of this ordinance shall provide
to the Superintendent, within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this
chapter, written verification from the owner or operator of the private
collection service that the residence, mobile home, or apartment was using the
service on the date of enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Commercial establishments may elect to use the services of a private
and authorized garbage collection service only if the Public Works
Superintendent deems that the nature of the garbage or refuse of said
commercial establishment is hazardous or otherwise unable to be collected by
the city's Streets and Sanitation Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful following the effective date of this chapter for
any person or firm, except the city, to engage in or conduct the business of
collection, removing, or disposing solid waste within the corporate limits of
the city, except by written authorization from the City Council upon its
determination that the person or firm possesses any required permit and has
adequate equipment for the safe and sanitary collection and disposal of the
solid waste within the city.
   (D)   Every property owner shall be directly responsible to the city for the
full payment of collection fees for each location in the city where solid waste
is generated, produced or accumulated in the event that the tenant or occupant
fails to pay said collection fees.
   (E)   Utilization of service, payment, and monthly billing. Each residence,
apartment building, office building, commercial establishment, industrial
establishment, institution or other location within the city limits utilizing
the service provided by the city shall be provided with regularly scheduled
garbage and refuse collection and disposal service by the city. The schedule
shall be regulated by the Superintendent, and shall be not less than one (1)
collection per week.
(Ord. 5091-1, passed 5-20-91; Am. Ord. 6-12-1, passed 6-18-12)
§ 53.09 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   The following practices are herein prohibited and violators shall be
punished or remedied as provided in §
53.99. From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To place for collection by the city any hazardous waste.
   (B)   To permit, allow, assist or facilitate any other person to place for
collection by the city any hazardous waste.
   (C)   To place for collection by the city waste, of any type, generated or
produced outside of the city.
   (D)   To permit, allow, assist or facilitate any other person to place for
collection by the city waste, of any type, generated or produced outside of the
city.
   (E)   To place for collection by the city liquid waste of any type.
   (F)   To deposit or cause to be deposited in any manner garbage or rubbish
or any other type of waste matter into the sewer system of the city except by
permit or other written authorization from the Superintendent of the Wastewater
Treatment Plant.
   (G)   To bury, burn or incinerate any solid waste, garbage or waste matter,
of any type, at any location within the city except as permitted or otherwise
authorized by the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (H)   To throw or deposit any solid waste, garbage, rubbish, or waste
matter, or to cause the same to be thrown or deposited, upon or in any street,
alley, gutter, vacant lot, or yard.
   (I)   To keep, place, or deposit garbage or solid waste on any private
grounds or premises whatsoever, except in cans or receptacles as designated by
this chapter.
   (J)   To store or keep any solid waste, garbage, rubbish, or waste matter
where rodents, flies or insects can have access thereto or feed thereon.
   (K)   To deposit any rubbish or waste matter, of any type, in or upon any
vacant lot, yard, street, alley, gutter, highway, park, or other public places
in the city except building materials and related supplies in use for
construction authorized under a building permit.
   (L)   To engage in the collection, hauling, or transportation of any solid
waste or refuse for hire, except by the city or its authorized agent, without
prior approval by the city. This is not intended to preclude the authorized
hauling for hire of private or commercial rubbish, waste matter, or solid waste
as defined in this chapter, or of cesspool or privy contents, or of any waste
building or construction materials left over from construction or demolition of
any building, which shall be the specific duty of the owner, operator,
contractor, or their agent.
   (M)   To keep or allow to accumulate for more than one week any kind of
putrescible solid waste, garbage or waste material.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
FEES
§ 53.20 COLLECTION FEE IMPOSED.
   The city shall provide a service for the collection of non-hazardous solid
waste as defined in this chapter, and such other refuse as it may from time to
time specify in its rules and regulations. Collection service shall be
available to persons within the city who subscribe therefor and pay the
requisite fee, and comply with the rules and regulations of the city as to
placement, containment, segregation and the like from time to time adopted by
the City Council.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.21 PURPOSE OF COLLECTION FEES.
   The fees and charges imposed, levied, and collected shall be for the purpose
of maintaining and operating the public waste collection and disposal system.
Any amount of solid waste collection fees and charges collected in excess of
operating and maintenance expenses shall be expended solely for the purpose of
street cleaning, street maintenance and other sanitary services of the city.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.22 REQUIREMENT AND PRESUMPTION OF SUBSCRIPTION.
   (A)   All persons subject to this chapter shall be required to subscribe,
and shall be conclusively presumed to have subscribed, to the city solid waste
collection service and pay the applicable charge therefor.
   (B)   Commercial, institutional or industrial operators shall be presumed to
have subscribed to the city collection service unless they have elected in
writing to utilize in-house waste collection and disposal or use a private
waste collection and disposal service and have so notified the Streets and
Sanitation Department Supervisor.
   (C)   In any event, without excusing any person from any criminal penalty
under this chapter, if any non-hazardous solid waste, trash, garbage, or refuse
of any kind is allowed to accumulate anywhere within the city for such a period
of time as to constitute a nuisance, even though not a subscriber to the city’s
collection service under the terms of this chapter, shall each be presumed to
have authorized the city to remove the non-hazardous solid waste, trash,
garbage or other refuse and shall each be responsible to the city for the
payment of the city’s reasonable charges for collecting and hauling the refuse,
which shall not in any event be less than the monthly charge shown on the then
currently effective schedule of charges, for performing similar service.
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.23 CLASSIFICATION AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The charges payable for the city solid waste collection service shall
be as set out by ordinance. The city may from time to time amend the
classification schedule by ordinance revoking same and establishing a new
schedule. No new schedule shall be made effective until the next month after
the publication of the ordinance enacting same.
   (B)   Residential classification.
      (1)   Residences in the city shall at all times be considered to be in a
single grouping or classification, without subdivision into subclasses
regardless of size or quantity of service, and shall pay the same charge.
      (2)   Residential collection fees (monthly):
         (a)   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month, per residence, as defined in
§
53.01.
         (b)   Nine dollars ($9.00) per month for persons age sixty-five (65)
and over, per residence, as defined in §
53.01.
      (3)   Residential collection fees (special items). The fee for special
item collections will be determined by the Public Works Superintendent or his
designee based on the following rate schedule, subject to the reservations
stated in subsection (4)(d) below.
         (a)   Ten dollars ($10.00) per special item; additional charges may be
added for an excessive total amount of items, or extra-heavy weight of said
items.
         (b)   Ten dollars ($10.00) for every ten (10) bags of grass clippings
or leaves collected.
         (c)   Ten dollars ($10.00) for brush collections; additional charges
may be added for excessive amounts of brush.
      (4)   Procedures for requesting and collecting special items:
         (a)   Solid waste placed for collection at a residential location not
capable of being stored in a regular container because of size or weight shall
be deemed to be a special item and subject to an additional charge over and
above the applicable monthly rate.
         (b)   Special items shall be collected pursuant to work orders
generated at City Hall after receiving a request for a special collection. Said
request may be submitted to City Hall in writing or verbally. Requests will be
accepted by fax, phone, or other electronic means.
         (c)   Payment for special item collections must be paid in full prior
to the collection. Special item collections shall not be separately billed or
carried over to the regular monthly billing statement.
         (d)   The Superintendent shall be authorized to reject any special
item collection request in the event that the special item solid waste to be
collected is unsuitable for collection by the city because of its extraordinary
quantity, weight or any other factor that would unreasonably burden the Streets
and Sanitation Department in the judgment of the Public Works Superintendent or
his designee.
   (C)   Commercial classification.
      (1)   Non-residential collection fees (monthly). The solid waste
collection fees for non-residential locations shall be as follows:
         (a)   Eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per month for one (1) six (6) cubic
yard dumpster collected on one (1) scheduled day per week.
         (b)   Eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per month for one (1) six (6) cubic
yard dumpster collected on one (1) additional day per week.
         (c)   Sixty dollars ($60.00) per month for one (1) three (3) cubic
yard dumpster collected on one (1) scheduled day per week.
         (d)   Sixty dollars ($60.00) per month for one (1) six (6) cubic yard
dumpster collected on one (1) additional day per week.
         (e)   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month for up to six (6) regular
containers collected on one (1) scheduled day per week.
         (f)   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month for up to six (6) regular
containers collected on one (1) additional day per week.
      (2)   Non-residential collection fees (special items). The fee for
special item collections will be determined by the Public Works Superintendent
or his designee, based on the following rate schedule, subject to the
reservations stated in part (3)(d) below:
         (a)   Ten dollars ($10.00) per special item; additional charges may be
added for an excessive total amount of items, or an extra-heavy weight of
items.
         (b)   Ten dollars ($10.00) for every ten (10) bags of grass clippings
or leaves collected.
         (c)   Ten dollars ($10.00) for brush collections; additional charges
may be added for excessive amounts of brush.
      (3)   Procedures for requesting and collecting special items.
         (a)   Solid waste placed for collection at a commercial location not
capable of being stored in a regular container or dumpster because of size or
weight shall be deemed to be a special item and subject to an additional charge
over and above the applicable monthly rate.
         (b)   Special items shall be collected pursuant to work orders
generated at City Hall after receiving a request for a special collection. The
request may be submitted to City Hall in writing or verbally. Requests will be
accepted by fax, phone, or other electronic means.
         (c)   Special item collections must be paid in full prior to the
collection. Special item collections shall not be separately billed or carried
over to the regular monthly billing statement.
         (d)   The Superintendent shall be authorized to reject any special
item collection request in the event that the special item solid waste to be
collected is unsuitable for collection by the city because of its extraordinary
quantity, weight or any other factor that would unreasonably burden the Streets
and Sanitation Department in the judgment of the Public Works Superintendent or
his designee.
      (4)   Non-residential customers requiring a dumpster may either purchase
the dumpster from the city or rent a dumpster from the city according to the
following rate schedule. The purchase price or monthly rental fee is in
addition to the monthly collection fee.
         (a)   Dumpster purchase price. The purchase price for the customer
will be the same as that charged to the city by its supplier plus handling
fees.
         (b)   Dumpster monthly rental fee.
            3 yd. dumpster - $12.00
            6 yd. dumpster - $15.00
         (c)   Combined collection and rental fee for dumpsters, based on the
number of collections per week, is as follows:
            Description            Charge
            3 yd. 1x week         $72.00
            6 yd. 1x week         $100.00
            3 yd. 2x week         $122.00
            6 yd. 2x week         $175.00
            3 yd. 3x week         $172.00
            6 yd. 3x week         $250.00
            3 yd. 4x week         $222.00
            6 yd. 4x week         $325.00
            3 yd. 5x week         $272.00
            6 yd. 5x week         $400.00
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91; Ord. 5-91-2, passed 5-20-91; Am. Ord. 6-00-1,
passed 6-5-00; Am. Ord. 6-12-1, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord. 6-15-07, passed 6-29-
15; Am. Ord. 4-19-2, passed 4-8-19; Am. Ord. 5-19-2, passed 5-28-19)
§ 53.24 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   All regular solid waste collection charges shown are payable with respect to
a calendar month and shall be included in the utilities bill issued during such
calendar month. (See Chapter 54 for additional information reference charges
for services.)
(Ord. 5-91-1, passed 5-20-91; Ord. 5-91-2, passed 5-20-91)
§ 53.25 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   See
Chapter 54 for discontinuation of service under unified system of billing for
all utilities.
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Hazardous waste. Any person who violates §
53.06(A) or §
53.09 (A) or (B) of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall,
upon conviction, be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Out-of-town garbage and all other violations. Any person who violates
§
53.09(C) through §
53.09(M) herein shall upon conviction be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   (C)   In addition to the penalty provisions set forth in subsections (A) and
(B) above, the city may commence such civil proceedings as may be necessary to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-91-2, passed 5-20-91; Am. Ord. 6-12-1, passed 6-18-12)
CHAPTER 54: UNIFIED SYSTEM OF BILLING, PAYMENT, COLLECTION AND DISCONTINUANCE
OF SERVICE FOR UTILITY SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Declaration of authority
   
54.02   Scope
   
54.03   Payment of charges
   
54.04   Discontinuation of service
   
54.05   Utility reactivation fees
   
54.06   Meter reading re-check fees
   
54.07   Seasonal meter turn-ons and turn-offs
Obstructions
   
54.10   Definition
   
54.11   No obstruction of utility meters and valves permitted
   
54.12   No obstruction of fire hydrants permitted
   
54.13   Appeal to Mayor of violation
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DECLARATION OF AUTHORITY.
   A unified system of billing, payment, collection and discontinuance of
utility services provided by the city is a matter of public necessity requiring
the enactment and enforcement of this unified billing and payment collection
chapter under authority of KRS 82.082.
§ 54.02 SCOPE.
   All persons, dwellings, businesses, offices, industries and all other
locations and customers utilizing any utility service covered by this chapter
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
§ 54.03 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   All regular utility charges (water, wastewater, natural gas and solid
waste collection) are payable with respect to a calendar month and shall be
included in the utility bills issued during the calendar month. Upon written
request, the City Clerk shall review all charges and, within ten (10) days from
the date of request, allow or deny an adjustment under the facts presented. A
customer aggrieved by the review and determination of the City Clerk may
request in writing a reconsideration by the City Council.
   (B)   All charges for water, wastewater treatment, natural gas and solid
waste collection service shall be paid by the final date shown on the bill. If
any bill is not paid by the due date, it shall be deemed delinquent and a
penalty of three percent (3%) of the amount of the bill shall attach and be
payable in addition to the amount of the bill.
   (C)   Bills for utility services subject to revenue bond requirements shall
be collected and accounted for in the manner as required by the revenue bond
issue(s).
(Ord. 2-83-2, passed 2-11-83; Am. Ord. 12-89-1, passed 12-27-89; Am. Ord. 1-91-
1, passed 1-14-91; Am. Ord. 5-91-3, passed 5-20-91)
§ 54.04 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The City Clerk is authorized to discontinue the furnishings of water,
wastewater treatment, natural gas and solid waste collection service to any
customer who is in default in the payment of the charges set forth on the bill.
Utility services may be discontinued in accord with the following policies:
      (1)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a city customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated
only after all bills for service then due have been paid and any required
deposit has been made. It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility
service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten (10) days of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of the bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and proof to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall be
authorized to order that the customer's service be discontinued and shall have
the authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   When any bill has remained unpaid beyond the due date, the water and
sewer service to the premises involved in the delinquent charges shall be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions of this section until such time
as all delinquent charges, plus a reconnection charge of $25.00, are paid in
full.
(Ord. 2-83-2, passed 2-11-83; Am. Ord. 12-89-1, passed 12-27-89; Am. Ord. 1-91-
1, passed 1-14-91; Am. Ord. 5-91-3, passed 5-20-91)
§ 54.05 UTILITY REACTIVATION FEES.
   (A)   The rates and charges for utility services shall be billed monthly,
and all bills for such service shall be payable by the established due date
shown on the bill. If any bill as aforesaid is not paid by the established due
date, it shall be deemed delinquent, and a delinquent penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the original bill shall be collectible from the customer, and a notice
will forthwith be mailed to the customer notifying customer that if the bill is
not paid within ten (10) days after the established due date, that the service
shall be disconnected, subject to state regulations. Bills for utility services
and solid waste collection shall be accounted for in the manner provided by
law.
   (B)   Bills for all utility services may be shown on the same statement as
bills for solid waste collection.
   (C)   When any utility bill, with or without solid waste collection charges,
has remained unpaid for ten (10) days after the established due date, all
utility and solid waste collection services to the delinquent premises shall be
disconnected or discontinued according to law. A disconnect fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00) shall be charged and a reactivation fee of thirty dollars
($30.00) shall be charged if between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., and
a reactivation fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged after 4:00 p.m.
   (D)   A returned check fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be collected on
any check returned for insufficient funds.
(Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09; Am. Ord. 4-19-1, passed 4-8-19)
§ 54.06 METER READING RE-CHECK FEES.
   Due to the significant expense incurred by the city in re-checking meter
readings of customers who have complained about same, the city establishes a
meter re-check fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each verification of the
previous meter reading. If, upon re-checking the reading, a mistake was
determined to have been made by the city on the first reading of the meter, the
twenty dollar ($20.00) re-check fee will not be assessed to the customer, and
an adjustment will be made to the customer's utility bill based on the revised
meter reading.
(Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09)
§ 54.07 SEASONAL METER TURN-ONS AND TURN-OFFS.
   Customers who voluntarily desire water or gas meters turned on or off based
on seasonal usage may request same of the city by calling City Hall to schedule
the service. If the request is made prior to the meter reading that month, the
city will turn the meter on or off while the meter is being read for no charge
to the customer. However, if the request is to perform such service prior to
the next meter reading date, there will be a turn-on or turn-off service fee of
five dollars ($5.00) if within the city limits, ten dollars ($10.00) beyond the
city limits but within Fleming County, and twenty dollars ($20.00) for Mason
County customers, in order to recover the average costs to perform the service.
(Ord. 1-09-1, passed 1-19-09)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 54.10 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Any tree, shrub, plant, or artificial structure which impedes
the ability of City of Flemingsburg utility personnel to access a meter for the
purpose of reading the meter for utility billing purposes, or impedes access to
the turn-on/shut-off valves at the service entrance. An obstruction shall be
presumed to impede utility personnel from access if any part of the obstruction
is within one foot of the meter and/or valve on either side thereof, and any
obstruction in front of the meter and related valves shall be presumed an
impediment if within five feet of the meter.
(Ord. 1-11-1, passed 1-10-11)
§ 54.11 NO OBSTRUCTION OF UTILITY METERS AND VALVES PERMITTED.
   No City of Flemingsburg Utility System customer shall place or erect any
obstruction around, beside, on top of, or in front of any City of Flemingsburg
utility meter and/or turn-on/shut-off valve for natural gas or purified water
which impedes access to the meter or valves by City of Flemingsburg utility
personnel for the purpose of reading the meter for billing purpose, or which
impedes access to the turn-on/shut-off valves for the meter.
(Ord. 1-11-1, passed 1-10-11) Penalty, see § 54.99
§ 54.12 NO OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS PERMITTED.
   No City of Flemingsburg Utility System customer shall place or erect any
obstruction around, beside, on top of, or in front of any City of Flemingsburg
fire hydrant which impedes access to the fire hydrant by City of Flemingsburg
Utility System personnel and/or members of the City of Flemingsburg Volunteer
Fire Department.
(Ord. 1-11-1, passed 1-10-11) Penalty, see § 54.99
§ 54.13 APPEAL TO MAYOR OF VIOLATION.
   Any violation of this subchapter found to exist by the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to appeal to the Mayor of the City of
Flemingsburg within ten days of receipt by the utility customer of the notice
of violation from the Utilities Superintendent, by requesting a form from City
Hall to be completed and signed by the customer. Additional evidence may be
presented to the Mayor by the customer in support of the appeal. The Mayor may
consider only the written evidence so presented, or may ask for additional
information from both the customer and the Utility Superintendent. The Mayor
will notify the customer in writing within ten days of receipt by the Mayor of
the appeal. The decision of the Mayor shall be final as to the city procedures.
(Ord. 1-11-1, passed 1-10-11)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of § 54.11 as determined by the Utilities Superintendent
of the City of Flemingsburg will result in written notice to the utility
customer that the customer has 30 days from the date of the notice to remove
the obstruction(s) listed on the notice. If after the 30-day period the
obstruction(s) have not been removed, the city will remove the obstruction for
the purpose of turning off service and removing the utility meter. The entire
cost of the removal will be borne by the utility customer and will be placed on
the customer’s final utility bill for the service so disconnected.
   (B)   Any violation of § 54.12 as determined by the Utilities Superintendent
of the City of Flemingsburg will result in written notice to the violator that
the person(s) or business has ten days from the date of the notice to remove
the obstruction(s) listed on the notice. If after the ten-day period the
obstruction(s) have not been removed, the city will remove the obstruction. The
entire cost of the removal will be borne by the violator, and will be placed on
the customer’s utility bill.
(Ord. 1-11-1, passed 1-10-11)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
75.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION." Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378 (1))
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of § 70.03 or any other acts necessary to
implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE." Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. "MOTOR VEHICLE." Includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
that five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicles
propelled by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010 (19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see § 70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Funeral Processions
   
71.30   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Speed Limits
   
71.75   Authority
   
71.76   Jurisdiction
   
71.77   Maximum operating speed
   
71.78   Signs to be posted
   
71.79   Nonexclusive regulation of motor vehicle operation
   
71.80   Speeding designated as a violation; fines
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at law speed and with caution.
Penalty, see § 71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator or, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one (1) or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue
lights, visible under normal conditions from a distance of five hundred (500)
feet to the front of the emergency vehicle; or the driver is given audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and
as close as possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle, operated in conformity
with the provisions of division (A) of this section, the operator of every
vehicle shall immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a
police officer or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) of this section closer than five hundred (500) feet,
nor shall he or she drive into, or park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle
within, the block where the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call
or alarm unless he or she is directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four (4)
lanes, with at least two (2) lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four (4) lanes or if changing lanes would
be impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)
Penalty, see § 71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or person comprising a
parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this division.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.75 AUTHORITY.
   The enactment and enforcement of this subchapter is authorized by KRS
82.082, KRS 83A.065 and KRS 189.390.
§ 71.76 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter establishes the maximum speed of motor vehicles operated
upon the streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the City
excluding any state highway.
§ 71.77 MAXIMUM OPERATING SPEED.
   An operator of a motor vehicle upon any street, road or alley within the
City shall not drive at a speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
§ 71.78 SPEED LIMIT SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   The maximum operating speed as set forth in §
71.77 shall be posted in conspicuous locations within the City and in a manner
reasonably calculated to inform the public of the maximum speed that motor
vehicles may be operated upon the streets, roads and alleys within the
corporate limits of the City, excluding state highways.
§ 71.79 NONEXCLUSIVE REGULATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION.
   The regulation by this subchapter of the maximum operating speed of motor
vehicles operated upon the streets, roads and alleys within the corporate
limits of the City shall not be construed to be the exclusive regulation, rule,
ordinance, statute or other law applicable to the operation of motor vehicles
upon the streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the City.
§ 71.80 SPEEDING DESIGNATED AS A VIOLATION; FINES.
   (A)   A violation of §
71.77 shall constitute a violation for the purpose of enforcement under the
provisions of KRS 83A.065. A violation of §
71.77 shall be prosecuted by the County Attorney in the Fleming District Court.
   (B)   In addition to the fines for speeding in violation of §
71.77, violators shall also be subject to all applicable court costs.
   (C)   Any operator of a motor vehicle who violates §
71.77 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   The fines for speeding in violation of §
71.77 shall be:
         MPH Over      Maximum   
         Limit         Speed 25      Fine
         1         26         $ 1
         2         27         2
         3         28         3
         4         29         4
         5         30         5
         6         31         16
         7         32         17
         8         33         18
         9         34         19
         10         35         20
         11         36         22
         12         37         24
         13         38         26
         14         39         28
         15         40         30
         16         41         32
         17         42         34
         18         43         36
         19         44         38
         20         45         40
         21         46         43
         22         47         46
         23         48         49
         24         49         52
         25         50         55
      (2)   For speeding in violation of §
71.77 in excess of the foregoing specific fine schedule, the fine shall not be
less than sixty dollars ($60.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (D)   The defendant may elect to pay the fine and court costs to the
district clerk before the date of his trial or to be tried in the normal
manner. Payment of the fine and court costs to the clerk shall be considered as
a plea of guilty for all purposes.
   (E)   If the offense charged shows a speed in excess of twenty-five (25)
miles per hour over the maximum operating speed set forth in §
71.77, the defendant shall appear for trial and shall not pay the fine to the
clerk before the trial date.
(Ord. 4-93-1, passed 4-5-93)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than sixty
dollars ($60.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or be imprisoned
in the county jail for not more than thirty days, or both.
(KRS 189.993 (8))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   All-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
Parking Meter Zones
   
72.50   Definitions
   
72.51   Establishment of regulated parking zones
   
72.52   Installation of regulatory devices
   
72.53   Parking in regulated zones; regulations
   
72.54   Duties of police
   
72.55   Disposition of funds
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space assigned for one vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device,
in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk.
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (6)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic
control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      (7)   On any controlled access highway.
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel.
      (9)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
      (10)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5) - (7))
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provision of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to parking for persons with disabilities appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in
conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to
which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any street within the city at such
times as the city, through the Street and Sanitation Superintendent, designates
street cleaning operations. Notice of the time when the cleaning operations
will be conducted, and any change thereof will be published one time in the
local newspapers.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to having his
vehicle towed in accordance with §§
72.20 through
72.22, or other obstruction removed, at his expense, and shall be subject to
the penalty set forth in §
72.99.
(Ord., passed 5-19-75)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 A11-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility. If at any
time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
the provisions of this section, a warrant may be obtained in District Court by
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with a disability or when transporting a person with a disability, may
be parked in a designated disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered
parking space may be parked for two (2) hours for no fee, or when parked where
any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two (2) hours in excess of the
parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that
period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with a
disability to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
thirty (30) minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see § 72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) of this section, for the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932, as long as it remains
in his or her possession.
      (2)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (D) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1),
ten (10) days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the
sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy
accrued charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a
waiver or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner
or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
subsection shall be subject to prior recorded liens unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)(3) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the
title issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified
mail within the first ten (10) days of impoundment in accordance with KRS
281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten (10) days by the towing and storage company, then only ten (10)
days of storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within forty-five (45) days of
notification, and all lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or
storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of
any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (A)(3)(e)
of this section.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 through KRS 281.936, KRS 359.230, and KRS 376.275, and the owner does
not exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this
section within forty-five (45) days of notification required under KRS 281.928,
the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as
provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided for in division (B)(5) of this section, any
contents exempted under division (B)(3), (4), (6) and (7) of this section that
are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the
vehicle was towed may be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the storage
or towing company. Any contents exempted under divisions (B)(1), (2), (8), and
(9) of this section that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within
forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but
shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle's trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner's consent.
(KRS 376.275(1)-(4))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immed-iately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE" shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
REGULATED PARKING ZONES
§ 72.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "REGULATED PARKING ZONES." Portions of streets, described and established by
ordinance of City Council, within which the parking of vehicles shall be
controlled, regulated, and inspected with the aid of signed, markings or
meters.
   "REGULATORY DEVICE." Sign, marking or meter.
   "STREET." Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway, or other
public place located in the city, and established for the use of vehicles.
   "VEHICLES." Any type of movable machinery, whether self-powered or not, used
or useful for the conveyance of persons or property, including but not limited
to automobiles, trucks, tractors, wagons, trailers, boats, bicycles,
motorcycles, construction equipment, and machinery on wheels or tracks.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.51 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGULATED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   There are established and fixed in the city certain zones to be known
as regulated parking zones. From time to time hereafter, as traffic conditions
require, other streets and avenues may be designated by ordinance of the city
for a location of these zones.
   (B)   In any of the regulated parking zones or any part or portion of the
separately designated parking meter zones, the City Council may in its
discretion cause a regulatory device to be installed at each space in the zones
available for parking of vehicles, and shall see that there shall be plainly
indicated on each of the regulatory devices the time limitation for parking.
The time limitation shall be designated by appropriate notice shown on the
regulatory device.
   (C)   The City Council may allocate a certain number of the designated
parking zones for use as reserved parking. The Mayor shall administer the
provisions of this subsection by promulgating the necessary and appropriate
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.52 INSTALLATION OF REGULATORY DEVICES.
   (A)   Regulatory devices are hereby authorized to be installed, maintained
and implemented within any regulated parking zone which is authorized by the
city ordinance at locations where, in the discretion of the Mayor, such devices
are deemed to be a practical means of regulating and controlling vehicular
traffic.
   (B)   Parking meters installed in the regulated parking zones established
shall be placed on the curb or other position of the street or walk adjacent to
the individual parking places. Each parking meter shall be placed or set in a
manner so as to show or display by a signal that the parking space adjacent to
the meter is or is not legally in use. Each parking meter installed shall
indicate by proper signal the legal parking time established by the city, and
when operated shall indicate by some appropriate device the duration of legal
parking, and on the expiration of the period shall indicate illegal
overparking.
   (C)   Signs shall be positioned at the beginning and end of the regulated
parking zone. Signs will designate time limits and time of day parking is
authorized.
   (D)   Regulatory markings will be readily identifiable and will specify the
type of regulated zone; (i.e., loading zone.)
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.53 PARKING IN REGULATED ZONES; REGULATIONS
   (A)   The Street Department shall have lines or markings painted or placed
on the curb or on the street adjacent to each parking spot for the purpose of
designating each parking space for which a regulatory device is to be used and
each vehicle parked adjacent or next to any regulatory device shall park within
the lines or marking so established. It shall be unlawful and a violation of
this section to park any vehicle across any line or marking or to park the
vehicle in a position so that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the area
so designated by the lines.
   (B)   When a parking space in any metered zone is parallel with the adjacent
curb or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in the parking space shall be parked so
that the foremost part of the vehicle shall be nearest to the parking meter.
   (C)   When a vehicle shall be parked in any space adjacent to which a
regulatory device is located, in accordance with this section the operator of
the vehicle shall, upon entering the parking space, immediately deposit or
cause to be deposited a United States Coin in the parking meter. Failure to
deposit the coin shall constitute a breach of this section and shall subject
the person to the penalty described in §
72.99. Upon depositing the coin and placing the meter in operation, the parking
space may be lawfully occupied by the vehicle during the period of parking time
which has been prescribed for the part of the street on which the parking space
is located. If the vehicle shall remain parked in the parking space beyond the
parking time limit for the parking space and the parking meter shall by its
dial and pointer indicate illegal parking, the vehicle shall be considered
parked overtime and beyond the period of legal parking time. The parking of the
vehicle overtime or beyond the period of legal parking time in any part of a
street where any meter is located shall be a violation of this section and
punished as set out in §
72.99.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section
for any person or operator to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle
registered in the name of or operated by the person or operator to be parked
overtime or beyond the period as designated by the regulatory device.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section
for any person to permit a vehicle to remain or be placed in any parking space
adjacent to any regulatory device which said device is displaying a signal
indicating that the vehicle occupying space has already been parked beyond the
period of time prescribed for the parking space.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section
to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slug, device, or
metallic substitute, or any other substitute for a coin of the United States.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section
for any person to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break,
destroy, or impair the usefulness of any regulatory device installed under the
provisions of this section.
Penalty, see § 72.99
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.54 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duties of the police officers of the city, acting with
instructions issued by the Mayor, to report the following:
   (A)   In the case of metered zones, the number of each parking meter which
indicated that the vehicle occupying the parking space adjacent to the parking
meter is or has been parked in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The state license number, if any, of the vehicle parked in violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The length of time during which the vehicle is parked in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation. Each police officer
shall attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that the
vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision of this chapter and
instructing the owner or operator thereof that the vehicle has been parked in
violation of a provision of this chapter and instructing the owner or operator
to report at the office of the Police Department of the city in regard to the
violation. Each owner or operator may, within 48 hours of the time when the
notice was attached to the vehicle, pay the City Clerk's office as a penalty
for and in full satisfaction of the violation, the sum of $5.00. The failure of
the owner or operator to make the payment within 48 hours shall render the
owner or operator subject to the penalties hereinafter provided for violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.55 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The moneys required to be deposited in parking meters as provided herein are
levied and assessed as fees to include moneys collected as fines to provide for
the proper regulation and control of traffic upon the public streets, the cost
of supervising and regulating the parking of vehicles in the parking meter
zones, the cost of providing public off-street parking, and the cost of the
purchasing, leasing, acquiring, installing, operating, maintaining,
supervising, regulating, and controlling the parking meters described herein.
All such fees shall be deposited in the general fund, from which the aforesaid
costs and expenses for on-street and off-street public parking shall be paid.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person who shall violate §
72.53 (C), (D) or (E) shall pay a fine of $5.00, if paid at the City Hall
within 48 hours from the time of the violation. If the fine is not paid within
48 hours and is paid within 72 hours, the fine shall be $10.00 and will not be
subject to court costs. Any person failing to pay at City Hall within 72 hours
shall be subject to summons to Fleming District Court, and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $75.00 for the first
offense, and be assessed court costs by Fleming District Court in the Court’s
sole discretion.
   (B) Any person failing to pay parking violation fines as set out in division
(A) above, and thereby permitting the accumulation of two or more tickets with
any 12-month period, shall upon conviction in Fleming District Court, be fined
not less than $75.00 nor more than $150.00, and each traffic ticket shall
constitute a separate offense whether or not they are issued on the same day or
different days.
   (C) Any person who shall violate §
72.53 (F) or (G) and any person who aids, abets, or assists therein, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of any amount not exceeding
$50.00 for each offense or violation.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 10-87-1, passed 10-19-87; Am. Ord. 4-14-
4, passed 4-28-14)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles, motorcycles, mopeds, hover boards, skateboards,
coasters, roller blades, roller skates and other similar devices
   
73.02   Citation for violation; confiscation; penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, HOVER BOARDS, SKATEBOARDS,
COASTERS, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   These regulations applicable to the above listed devices shall apply
whenever operated upon any street, sidewalk, public parking lot, trail, path,
or other public way.
   (B)   Any person operating the above listed devices shall obey the
instructions of official control signals, signs and other control devices
applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (C)   No person riding on the above listed devices upon any roadway or
sidewalk shall do so in such a manner as to endanger the safety of the operator
or pedestrians.
   (D)   Excluding bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds, no person shall operate
the above listed devices upon a street or sidewalk one half hour before sun set
or one half hour before sunrise without wearing a reflective device on the
front and back of the rider.
   (E)   Whenever any person is riding the above listed devices that such
person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible
signal and shall operate the device in a careful manner before overtaking and
passing such pedestrian as not to endanger the safety and convenience of the
pedestrian.
   (F)   The city may erect signs on the sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of the above listed devices thereon by any person and when such sign is
in place, no person shall disobey them.
   (G)   No person shall at any time, use, operate or ride upon any of the
above listed devices in the city, on any sidewalk, trail or walking path or
roadway that is marked as being off limits to such activity.
   (H)   No person shall at any time use any bench, table, garbage can or any
other property belonging to the city as a ramp or jump for the above listed
devices except for the skateboard ramps specifically provided for this purpose.
   (I)   No person shall operate the above listed devices on the sidewalks of
the city within the central business district, including shopping centers.
   (J)   Other than using a skateboard at the designated skateboard park in the
city, no person shall operate the above listed devices on any section of a
public park, play ground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (K)   No operator of any of the above listed devices shall carry another
person on such bicycle, motorcycle and mopeds, hover board, skateboard,
coasters, roller blade or roller skate except on a seat attached thereto for
the purpose on a side car attached to the vehicle.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating the above listed
devices, except for bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds, to go on any roadway
except for a crosswalk.
   (M)   No person while operating or riding on the above listed devices shall
cling to a moving vehicle or be fastened or attached to a moving vehicle.
   (N)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Ord. 03-17-01, passed 3-13-17)
§ 73.02 CITATION FOR VIOLATION; CONFISCATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any police officer who issues a citation for violation of this
subchapter shall confiscate the bicycles, motorcycles, mopeds, hover boards,
skateboards, coasters, roller blades or roller skates used in the violation and
place it in a secure area.
   (B)   The bicycles, motorcycles, mopeds, hover boards, skateboards,
coasters, roller blades and roller skates may be returned to the violator or to
a parent or guardian of the violator, if the violator is a minor, after the
following periods of time; 1) after ten (10) days for a first violation, after
twenty (20) days for a second or subsequent offence; and after thirty days (30)
for a third or more offense.
   (C)   Violation of this subchapter is punishable as a Class B. Misdemeanor
as defined by KRS 532.020(3), and includes a fine up to fifty dollars ($50.00)
for the first offense, a fine up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
second offense, and up to ninety (90) days detention/incarceration and a fine
up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the third or greater offense.
Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent any police officer from issuing a
first or second warning as opposed to issuing a citation.
   (D)   If the violator of this subchapter fails to retrieve property
confiscated relating to a violation of this subchapter, the method of disposal
after the specific period of time shall be as prescribed by Kentucky law for
forfeited property.
(Ord. 03-17-01, passed 3-13-17)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.     Parking prohibited at all times
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any of the following locations at any
time.
 
Street            Side  Location                               Ord. No. Date
East Water Street North From intersection of Garr Avenue for a 5-3-54   -
                        distance of 1500 feet eastward
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Defined
   
75.02   Permitted on city streets and alleys
   
75.03   Required equipment
   
75.04   Subject to traffic regulations
   
75.05   Exemptions
   
75.06   Exclusions
   
75.07   Issuance of permits
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINED.
   As used herein, the term “GOLF CART” means any self-propelled vehicle that:
   (A)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining equipment
on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of
golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
   (B)   Has a minimum of four (4) wheels;
   (C)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour;
   (D)   Is designed to carry not more than six (6) persons, including the
driver;
   (E)   Has a maximum gross weight of two thousand five hundred (2,500)
pounds;
   (F)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) pounds; and
   (G)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 75.02 PERMITTED ON CITY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   In compliance with §
75.03, golf carts may be operated on all streets and alleys within the city
limits that have designated speed limits of thirty-five (35) miles per hour or
less.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 75.03 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   In order to be operated on city streets, a golf cart shall:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city as provided
hereinafter under §
75.07;
   (B)   Display a permit that identifies that the golf cart is allowed to be
operated on specific roadways within the city, which permit shall be numbered
and affixed to the left lower side (driver's side) of the windshield of the
vehicle;
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the County
Sheriff’s Office and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section;
   (D)   Display a slow-moving emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (E)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a public highway;
   (F)   Be operated only between sunrise and sunset;
   (G)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession; and
   (H)   Be operated without crossing a roadway at an intersection where the
roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public highway under the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and
any other applicable provisions of this code of ordinances pertaining to the
operation of vehicles upon city streets,
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19) Penalty, see § 75.99
§ 75.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   A golf cart operating on a public highway is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from:
   (A)   The title requirements of KRS 186.020;
   (B)   The vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
   (C)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 75.06 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of these sections shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a
golf cart path on a golf course.
   (B)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on a public roadway designated under §
75.02 that crosses a state-maintained highway under its jurisdiction if the
Transportation Cabinet determines that such prohibition is necessary in the
interest of public safety.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 75.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The City Clerk shall prepare an application form for the special golf cart
operation permit, and shall charge a yearly fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for each permit issued annually beginning July 1, 2019. Subsequent renewals of
the permit shall be due on or before July 1 of each year thereafter. There
shall be no proration of the fee for any permit issued after July 1. All
permits issued after July 1 shall expire on the following June 30. Insurance
and proof of inspection by a certified inspector shall be presented prior to
issuance of an official permit by the City Clerk. The permits shall be numbered
and the City Clerk shall maintain detailed records relative to the issuance of
same.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
of a first offense, be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) plus
court costs. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of this chapter
within two (2) years of a prior conviction under this chapter, shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs.
(Ord. 9-19-1, passed 9-9-19)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
   
94.   LITTERING
   
95.   FAIR HOUSING
   
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
97.   BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES
   
98.   NOISE REGULATION
   
99.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
Dogs
   
90.10   Dogs running at large
   
90.11   Noise disturbance; public nuisance prohibited
   
90.12   Registration of pit bull dogs and vicious dogs
   
90.13   Possession; entry on private property
   
90.14   Impoundment
   
90.15   Removal of dog excrement
   
90.16   Confinement of certain dogs
   
90.17   Regulation of kennels
   
90.18   Multi-family dwellings
Livestock, Fowl, or Animals (Other Than Dogs)
   
90.25   Running at large
   
90.26   Exceptions; allowances
   
90.27   Harboring swine, pigs, or hogs
   
90.28   Transporting of animals
   
90.29   Poultry dealers
   
90.30   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.31   Bees or other stinging insects
   
90.32   Removal of animal excrement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “ANIMAL SHELTER.” The Fleming County Animal Shelter or any other facility
designated by the Dog Warden to impound and care for a dog picked up by the Dog
Warden for violation of this chapter.
   “DOG.” Any member of the canine species, male or female, of any age.
   “DOG WARDEN.” The Fleming County Dog Warden employed by the Fleming County
Fiscal Court.
   “HONEY BEES.” Bees of the type customarily raised for honey; such bees are
also known as apis mellifera.
   “HUMANE SOCIETY.” Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   “IMPOUNDED.” Having been received into the custody of a police Officer, Code
Enforcement Officer, Dog Warden, or any other empowered official.
   “KEEP.” Possessing, controlling, exercising or allowing to run at large.
   “KENNEL OPERATOR.” Any person engaged in the commercial business of
breeding, buying, selling or boarding dogs and who owns, harbors or keeps five
(5) or more dogs over the age of four (4) months.
   “OWNER.” Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or other animal
covered under the provisions of this chapter.
   “PERSON.” Includes all natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies and other entities.
   “PUBLIC NUISANCE.” Any animal which molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
attacks people or other animals; damages public or private property; is
repeatedly at large; makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion; or disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner.
   “RESTRAINED.” Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing (including invisible
fencing) designed to control the movement of the dog or secured by a leash or
chain.
   “RUNNING AT LARGE.” On or off the premises of the owner and not under the
immediate effective control of the owner or custodian either by leash, cord, or
chain or effectively restrained on the owner’s premises.
   “SERVICE ANIMAL.” Any canine which assists anyone with day to day activities
to include K-9 police dogs.
   “STRAY.” Any animal running at large with no identification.
   “VICIOUS ANIMAL.”
      (1)   Any animal which has been known or should be known by a reasonably
prudent person to have the propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals; or
      (2)   Any animal which attacks any human being or domestic animal without
provocation; or
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting, or any animal trained for
fighting other animals; or
      (4)   Any animal which has bitten human beings twice is prima facie
deemed vicious.
      (5)   The keeping of vicious animals is prohibited. No person shall keep
any vicious animal, whether owned by him or not, on his property within the
City of Flemingsburg.
   “VICIOUS DOG.” Any dog which exhibits those distinguishing characteristics,
which substantially conform to the standards established by the American Kennel
Club for American Staffordshire terrier, of Staffordshire bull terriers, or
substantially conform to the standards established by the United Kennel Club
for American pit bull terriers, including any mixed breed of dog which contains
as an element of its breeding the breed of Staffordshire bull terrier, American
Staffordshire terrier, or American pit bull terrier. Also the Rottweiler breeds
and the Chow Chow breeds. Dogs of mixed breed or of other breeds than above
listed which breed or mixed breed are known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs, or any
other commonly accepted derivative named of the named breeds listed above. Or
any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being predominantly of
any of the breeds of dogs listed above; or a combination of any of those.
   “WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.” Any animal not indigenous to the United States
and not ordinarily tame and which by nature an animal that lives apart from
human beings.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to see, own, harbor or keep as a pet any wild
or exotic animal, not indigenous to the United States, except state and federal
conservation officers, licensed nuisance wildlife officers, and licensed
rehabilitators.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to see, own, harbor or keep as a pet any wild
animal native to the United States, except state and federal conservation
officers, licensed nuisance wildlife officers, and licensed rehabilitators.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep any venomous
reptile.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Dogs, see KRS Chapter 258
DOGS
§ 90.10 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every owner, harborer, or person having the custody, control, or
possession of any dog shall keep such dog restrained to the premises and
property of said owner, harborer, or custodian except as herein provided.
   (B)   No owner, harborer, or person having custody, control or possession of
any dog shall permit, allow or suffer the dog to run at large as defined
herein.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11 NOISE DISTURBANCE; PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or possession of
any dog shall permit such dog to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood by reason of its howling, barking, and whining, the stench they
cause, unsanitary conditions in which they are kept, or its disturbance of
people in the reasonable use and enjoyment of property where any of these
factors cause annoyance, discomfort, or injury to the health and welfare of
persons in the neighborhood.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.12 REGISTRATION OF PIT BULL DOGS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   Every person in possession of a pit bull dog or vicious dog in the city
shall register the dog with City Hall, with a copy thereof maintained at the
City Police Department, stating the name, address and telephone number of the
person possessing the animal, the address where the animal is harbored (if
different from the possessor’s address), a complete identification of the
animal including genus and species, common name, gender, color, size, weight
and any other distinguishing physical characteristics. In the case of a dog
required by law to be vaccinated for rabies, proof of rabies vaccination shall
also be provided. Registration shall be completed within seventy-two (72) hours
after the animal is located with the city territorial limits. Insurance
requirements are a minimum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
liability and the animal owner must show proof of coverage. In addition, if
such owner is a tenant rather than the owner of the property where the animal
referred to herein is kept, then the property owner shall also provide proof of
liability coverage in the minimum amount of $100,000.00, and sign the
registration form.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.13 POSSESSION; ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any and all dogs found at large within the city in violation of this
chapter shall be taken into custody by the Police Department or Code
Enforcement Officer or Dog Warden or other empowered officials of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, police officers of the city, Dog
Warden, Code Enforcement Officer or other empowered officials, shall have the
specific authority to enter upon private property for the purpose of taking
into custody any dog found upon the property of anyone other than the owner of
said dog.
   (C)   (1)   Police officers, Code Enforcement Officer, Dog Warden or any
other empowered official may use any reasonable means and force necessary to
take control and possession of dogs found in violation of this chapter,
including but not limited to, using tranquilizer guns or devices. Police, Code
Enforcement Officer, Dog Warden, or other empowered official shall not be
liable, civilly or criminally, for dogs that unintentionally are injured or
killed in the process of taking control or possession of said animals as
provided herein.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest,
hinder or prevent city police officers, Dog Warden, Code Enforcement Officer or
other empowered officials of the city discharging their duties herein
prescribed.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.14 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   All dogs taken into custody by the city police, Code Enforcement
Officer, Dog Warden or other empowered official as provided herein shall be
impounded at the animal shelter, except as provided in division (B) below.
Additionally, all owners of dogs taken into custody shall be issued a city
citation for violation of this chapter by a police officer or Code Enforcement
Officer. Should the Dog Warden take a dog into custody he/she shall immediately
notify the City Police Department or Code Enforcement Officer of the city and
request that the proper citation be issued.
   (B)   If the dog is found on or off the premises of its owner at large, the
police officer, Code Enforcement Officer, Dog Warden or other empowered
official may, in their discretion, not impound the dog, but in lieu thereof,
issue a citation to the owner for permitting the dog to run at large.
   (C)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be made at the time of the
impoundment. Said record shall contain the following information: breed,
gender, color, size, weight and any other distinguishing characteristics.
Additionally, if the dog is licensed, the record shall contain the name and
address of the owner and the license tag number. Final disposition of said dog
shall also be included. The original records shall be kept at City Hall with
copies sent to the Police Department upon final disposition.
   (D)   All dogs impounded shall be kept for a period of five (5) days,
excluding the date of impoundment. No dog impounded as provided herein shall be
released to its owner, keeper, or custodian without written authority from the
Code Enforcement Officer of the city. Authority may be given only after the
citation and any and all expenses incurred by the city in keeping the dog have
been paid in full. Any dog not reclaimed within the five (5) day time period
shall be handled and/or disposed of by the regulations of the county or by
state law.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.15 REMOVAL OF DOG EXCREMENT.
   No person shall allow a dog under his or her control to be upon public
property or upon the property of another, absent the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property, without some device for the removal and containment
of the dog's excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any excrement
deposited by any dog under his or her control on public or private property.
This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a blind person.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.16 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel in such manner that such female
dog cannot come in contact with another animal except for controlled breeding
purposes.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.17 REGULATION OF KENNELS.
   (A)   Every person operating a kennel shall obtain an occupational business
license from the city. The fee for said license shall be seventy-five dollars
($75.00). This section shall not apply to veterinarians.
   (B)   No kennel license shall be issued except whereby the commercial
business operation is consistent with the zoning ordinance of the city and no
issuance to a commercial business not permitted by zoning ordinance shall be
valid.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   No pit bull dog, vicious dog or dangerous animal shall be harbored in any
multi-family dwelling including but not limited to apartments, condominiums,
townhouses, hotels, motels, or other single structures containing more than one
(1) residential unit whether the unit is leased or owned in fee simple by the
person occupying same. No landlord or landlords agent or condominium, tenants
or residents association shall knowingly permit any tenant to harbor a vicious
dog or dangerous animal in any multi-family premises owned or controlled by the
landlord, agent or association. Any landlord, agent or association discovering
the presence of any such animal in any multi-family premises owned or
controlled by the landlord, agent or association shall notify the owner or
custodian of the animal to remove the animal from the premises immediately upon
discovery thereof.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
LIVESTOCK, FOWL, AND ANIMALS (OTHER THAN DOGS)
§ 90.25 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall permit any livestock, fowl, or animals
owned by them to run at large on the streets, alleys, or public or private
property of others with the exception of those animals excepted in §
90.26, and any livestock, fowl, or animals found running at large in such
manner may be impounded by the police or officers of the city, and, if not
claimed within twenty-four (24) hours, may be sold or destroyed by the police
or other officers. Any livestock, fowl, or animals which pose an immediate
threat of injury to the safety and welfare of citizens, may be destroyed
immediately by the Police Department, Code Enforcement Officer or Dog Warden.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.26 EXCEPTIONS; ALLOWANCES.
   (A)   Nothing contained in §§
90.25 through
90.30 shall prevent any person from owning, keeping or harboring animals as
personal pets, provided they are not kept for other persons for profit; for
sale to others; or in numbers beyond the owners ability to care for and control
as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer, Animal Control Officer, or
police, within the fenced or enclosed limits of a residence within the
corporate limits of the city. Provided further, that cats, and animal pets
shall be permitted to run at large unless they have vicious natures that
require their confinement in the interest of the public health and safety as
provided herein or in other ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Further excepted from the operation of this chapter is the owning and
keeping of a show animal for 4-H projects, FFA, etc. provided same do not
become a public nuisance as defined herein. Finally, any property within the
city limits of the city which is zoned agricultural shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
§ 90.27 HARBORING SWINE, PIGS, OR HOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor swine, pigs, or hogs,
within the city limits.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.28 TRANSPORTING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any truck or vehicle
transporting animals upon the streets of the city, or any other place within
the city limits, for the purpose of inspecting or examining said animals for
sale or purchase.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.29 POULTRY DEALERS.
   Nothing in §§
90.25 through
90.30 shall prevent recognized poultry dealers from keeping chickens or poultry
in coops; however, such places where poultry is kept for sale shall be kept
clean to prevent obnoxious odors and conditions injurious to the health of the
citizens and residents of the city. The poultry houses shall be subject to
inspection by the county health agent and, if condemned by the agency, the
condition shall be remedied within five (5) days or be in violation of this
section.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.30 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abuse
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Control from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing food, water, adequate shelter from the elements,
adequate space, reasonable grooming, ventilation, shade from the sun, proper
sanitation, care and medical attention.
   (D)   Any animal, which is chained, tied or otherwise restrained, shall be
provided no less than ten (10) feet of chain, rope and the like, with a swivel
attached to prevent entanglement. Any animal restrained in such a manner that
the animal's chain, rope or the like allows the animal to leave its owner or
keeper's property, shall be deemed running at large.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. A law enforcement officer, Dog Warden or Code
Enforcement Officer shall rescue any animal confined in such a manner.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe or attend any dog-fight, cock-fight, bull-fight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any other animal, for
the purpose of violating any provision of this chapter.
   (H)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show, shall be
permitted, in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through
the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (I)   No person(s) shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall likely be eaten by an animal, provided that
it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his property, common rat
poison, mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (J)   Any person, who as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall immediately report the incident to Animal Control or any law
enforcement officer.
   (K)   No person(s) shall give away any live animal as a prize or for
inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement
to enter into business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except it shall not be unlawful to give away small fish,
not to exceed four (4) inches, as a prize.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to color, stain, dye or
otherwise change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored
animals for sale in the county, except that the mane and tail of an equine may
be changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing equine.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two (2) months in quantities less than six (6).
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person to crop a dog's ears or tail,
except if done by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.31 BEES OR OTHER STINGING INSECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor bees or other stinging
insects within the city limits, unless the harboring or keeping of bees is for
educational purposes.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12; Am. Ord. 4-19-
3, passed 4-16-19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   No person shall allow an animal of any kind which is under his or her
control to be upon public property, a public roadway, public parking area, or
upon the private property of another, unless such person has some device for
the removal and containment of the animal's excrement; nor shall any such owner
or animal control person fail to remove from such public or private property
any and all excrement deposited by such animal under his or her control, absent
the express consent of the owner or legal occupant of the property. This
section shall apply to any horse, cow, goat, or sheep, and any and all other
livestock or pet excrement.
(Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be issued a citation
by law enforcement officer to appear in Fleming District Court. If convicted
there shall be a fine of not more than $250.00 for each separate violation
hereof.
(Ord. 3-11-1, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 10-12-1, passed 10-8-12)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk repair
   
91.07   Agreements with State Department of Highways
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.17   Effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make an opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks, KRS 178.290
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK REPAIR.
   (A)   Supervisory responsibility of sidewalk maintenance plan. The sidewalk
management plan shall be the responsibility of the City Codes Enforcement
Officer. The Codes Enforcement Officer will implement the sidewalk management
plan as follows:
      (1)   All sidewalks within the city shall be inspected by the Codes
Enforcement Officer, or his agent(s), annually.
      (2)   After inspection all sidewalks will receive a safety rating on a
descending numerical scale as follows: 1=Excellent; 2=Good; 3=Poor; 4=Bad; and
5=Dangerous.
      (3)   A prioritized repair/replacement list will be developed based on
the following criteria:
         (a)   Safety rating by the Codes Enforcement Officer;
         (b)   Proximity to major traffic areas;
         (c)   Amount of pedestrian traffic;
         (d)   Proximity to other sidewalks also needing repair; and
         (e)   History of prior accidents and complaints.
      (4)   Cost estimates will be provided for the identified replacement/
repair area:
         (a)   By the entire overall area, and
         (b)   By individual property owner portion.
      (5)   Property owner(s) will be given a notice of the city's intent to
replace/repair the sidewalk including a cost estimate for the repair/
replacement, the property owner's payment obligations, and a proposed schedule
for the project.
   (B)   Responsibility for replacement/repair of sidewalks. The replacement/
repair of sidewalks shall be a joint effort between the City of Flemingsburg
and the adjacent property owners as follows:
      (1)   The sidewalk to be replaced/repaired must be located within the
city limits of the City of Flemingsburg in order to be considered for repair/
replacement.
      (2)   The city may pay one hundred percent (100%) of the replacement/
repair costs for sidewalks when grant funds are available for this purpose.
      (3)   The city may pay one hundred percent (100%) of the replacement/
repair costs for sidewalks that promote business growth and development as
approved by the Mayor on a case-by-case basis within these guidelines.
      (4)   The city may share the replacement/repair costs for sidewalks with
the adjacent property owner on a seventy-five percent - twenty-five percent
(75% - 25%) basis as authorized by the Mayor on a case-by-case basis within
these guidelines.
      (5)   When replacement/repair costs are to be shared between the city and
the adjacent property owner, both parties shall sign a contract specifying each
party's obligation.
      (6)   In lieu of payment in full for his/her portion of the sidewalk
replacement/repair costs, the adjacent property owner may, with the approval of
the Mayor, contract with the City Clerk for an installment payment plan not to
exceed thirty-six (36) months in duration.
      (7)   Property owners who fail to pay their portion of the sidewalk
repair/replacement costs as specified in subsections (B)(5) and (B)(6) shall
have a lien placed against their property to recover said property owner's
portion of the costs.
      (8)   Property owners who choose not to participate in the cost sharing
arrangement will be billed for the full replacement/repair cost and will have a
lien placed on their property to recover the costs if necessary.
      (9)   Sidewalks damaged by property owners or sidewalks replaced for the
convenience of the property owner such as, but not limited to, those adjacent
to new construction, shall be paid for entirely by the property owner.
      (10)   When sidewalk replacement/repair is necessitated by damage
resulting from some intentional act or negligence by someone other than the
property owner, the responsible party(ies) will be billed for the costs of the
replacement/repair.
      (11)   Nothing in the sidewalk management plan shall prevent a property
owner from paying one hundred percent (100%) of the costs for replacement/
repair of adjacent sidewalks upon approval by the city.
      (12)   This sidewalk management plan is subject to available funding and
the priority of individual projects shall be determined by the city.
      (13)   The city shall be the sole interpreter of the sidewalk management
plan.
   (C)   Minimum standards for construction of sidewalks. All sidewalks being
constructed or replaced in the city shall be constructed to these minimum
standards. Any other standards issued by entities or agencies that have
authority to regulate the construction of sidewalks in Flemingsburg, Kentucky
may also apply:
      (1)   All sidewalks shall be replaced to the width of the current
sidewalk at a minimum of thirty-six (36) inches. Any sidewalk that is replacing
a sidewalk with a width of less than thirty-six (36) inches must also conform
to the thirty-six (36) inch minimum. All new sidewalks being constructed must
have a minimum width of forty-eight (48) inches.
      (2)   All sidewalks shall have a six (6) inch curb at the street side
with a one (1) inch rounded corner.
      (3)   The curb shall extend at least one (1) inch into the sub-grade.
      (4)   Sidewalk thickness must be a minimum of four (4) inches and a
minimum of six (6) inches at driveway crossing apron.
      (5)   Concrete used in sidewalk repair/replacement shall be a minimum of
3500 psi Class A concrete. Stamped concrete or brick pavers may be used for new
sidewalk construction with prior approval of the Codes Enforcement Officer or
the Mayor.
      (6)   Welded wire and/or rebar shall be used to reinforce the sidewalk
and rebar shall be used at driveway aprons to add additional support.
      (7)   All sidewalks and aprons shall be finished with a medium Broom
finish that provides a non-skid finish.
      (8)   Scoring of the sidewalk shall be at least three-fourths (3/4) inch
deep at a distance equal to the sidewalk width.
      (9)   An expansion joint is required whenever new concrete meets old
concrete, foundations, existing buildings, or other fixed objects.
      (10)   A sidewalk shall be sloped toward the street with no more than a
one-fourth (1/4) inch/one (1) foot of slope.
      (11)   Detectable warning areas shall be placed at all street
intersections and commercial driveway aprons. Dimensions and design of warning
areas shall follow standards provided by the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
      (12)   Soil shall be graded and seeded after the project is complete to
prevent soil erosion.
      (13)   Sidewalks constructed by property owners may exceed these
standards at the owner's expense with approval of the Codes Enforcement Officer
or the Mayor.
(Ord. 9-12-1, passed 9-10-12)
§ 91.07 AGREEMENTS WITH STATE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS.
   The state Department of Highways may maintain and repair, construct and
reconstruct, under its control and supervision, those city streets so
designated by the Department, and may make appropriations and expenditures out
of its fund for this purpose. The Department may enter into any and all
contracts, inclusive of any agreement made with this city, and with any federal
agencies.
(KRS 177.043)(Ord., passed 4-26-62)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4)with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100 (2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
chapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIAL ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 91.99
Cross reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94.
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.00.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Authority
   
92.03   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.04   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.05   Agricultural operations
   
92.06   Abatement procedure
   
92.07   Nuisance created by others
   
92.08   Suspension of license
Bed Bugs
   
92.20   Bed bugs declared a nuisance
   
92.21   Responsibility of property owner
   
92.22   Disposal of furnishings, bedding or other materials infested with bed
bugs
   
92.23   Bed bugs infestation duty to exterminate
   
92.24   Tenant responsibility
   
92.25   Sale of second hand bedding
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AUTOMOBILE PARTS.” Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   “INOPERATIVE CONDITION.” Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten (10) consecutive days.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   “NUISANCE.” Public nuisance.
   “SCRAP METAL.” Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   “UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.” In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94)
§ 92.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted under authority of KRS 82.082.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94)
§ 92.03 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, “EXCESSIVE” shall mean growth to a
height of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.05 AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No agricultural operation or any of its appurtenance within the
corporate limits of the city shall be or become a public nuisance after same
has been in operation for more than one year, when such operation was not a
nuisance at the time the operation began; provided, that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply whenever a nuisance results from the negligent
operation of any such agricultural operation and its appurtenances.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter “agricultural operation” includes
without limitation, any facility for the production of crops, livestock,
poultry, livestock products, or poultry products including horticultural and
growing timber.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16)
§ 92.07 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94)
§ 92.08 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Ord. 6-94-5, passed 6-20-94)
BED BUGS
§ 92.20 BED BUGS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Bed bugs are hereby declared to be a public nuisance subject to the
abatement provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13)
§ 92.21 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of every property owner to provide pest
control services when bed bugs are found on any premises. The pest control
services shall be conducted by a pest management professional as many times at
necessary to totally eliminate the reported bed bug problem. Every property
owner shall maintain a written record of the pest control measures performed by
the pest management professional on the premises and receipts and reports
prepared by the pest management professional and relating to those measures
taken. The record shall be open to inspection by the Codes Enforcement Officer
and employees of the Fleming County Health Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization which provides
sleeping accommodations for hire or rent, to rent, hire, or otherwise provide,
any such sleeping accommodation in which an infestation of any bed bugs are
discovered or suspected, unless an inspection by the pest management
professional has determined that no such infestations exist or the infestation
has been exterminated.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DISPOSAL OF FURNISHINGS, BEDDING OR OTHER MATERIALS INFESTED WITH BED
BUGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, discard or dispose of any bedding; clothing or
other materials infested with bed bugs on any public way or place it for trash
collection.
   (B)   No furnishing, bedding, clothing or other material infested with bed
bugs shall be recycled.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 BED BUGS INFESTATION DUTY TO EXTERMINATE.
   (A)   In any rental unit where an infestation of bed bugs is found or
suspected, it is the responsibility of the landlord to:
      (1)   Provide pest control services by a pest management professional as
many times as necessary to totally eliminate the bed bug infestation; and
      (2)   Maintain a written record of the pest control measures performed by
the pest management professional on the rental unit and receipts and reports
prepared by the pest management professional which record shall be open to
inspection by the Codes Enforcement Officer and employees of the Fleming County
Health Department.
   (B)   In any multiple rental units, building where an infestation of bed
bugs is found or suspected, it is the responsibility of the landlord to:
      (1)   Provide pest control services by a pest management professional as
many times as necessary to totally eliminate the bed bug infestation within the
building or portion thereof, including the individual rental unit; and
      (2)   Maintain a written record of the pest control measures performed by
the pest management professional on the building and receipts and reports
prepared by the pest management professional which record shall be open to
inspection by the Codes Enforcement Officer and employees of the Fleming County
Health Department.
   (C)   The extermination of bed bugs shall be by:
      (1)   Inspection, and if necessary the treatment of the two dwelling
units on either side of the infested dwelling units and the two units directly
above and below the affected dwelling unit. This pattern of inspection and
treatment shall be continued until no further infestation is detected; or
      (2)   Any other method approved by the Codes Enforcement Officer and
Fleming County Health Department.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13)
§ 92.24 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A tenant shall immediately notify, in writing, the landlord of any
known or suspected bed bug infestation in presence of the tenant's dwelling
unit, clothing, furniture or other personal property located in the building,
or of any recurring or unexplained bites, stings, irritation, or sores of the
skin or body which the tenant suspects is caused by bed bugs.
   (B)   The tenant shall cooperate with the landlord in the control, treatment
and eradication of bed bug infestation found or suspected to be, in the
tenant's rental unit. As part of that cooperation, the tenant shall:
      (1)   Not interfere with inspections or treatment;
      (2)   Grant access at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice to the
tenant's rental unit for purposes of bed bug infestation inspection or
treatment;
      (3)   Make any necessary preparations, such as cleaning, dusting, or
vacuuming prior to treatment in accordance with any pest management
professional's recommendation; and
      (4)   Dispose of any personal property that cannot be treated or cleaned
before the treatment of the tenant's dwelling unit.
   (C)   Prior to inspection or treatment for bed bug infestation, the landlord
shall send a written notice to the tenant dwelling unit being inspected or
treated which advises the tenant of a tenant's responsibilities under this
section and set forth specific preparations required by the tenant.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 SALE OF SECOND HAND BEDDING.
   (A)   Every person who sells any secondhand bedding shall post in a
conspicuous location by the secondhand bedding a written notice that the
bedding is made in whole or part from secondhand material or was previously
owned or used.
   (B)   Every person who sells any secondhand bedding shall provide to the
purchaser of such secondhand bedding a written notice that the bedding is made
in whole or in part from secondhand material or has been previously owned or
used.
(Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   For each violation of §§
92.20 through
92.25, the offender shall be fined $100.
(Am. Ord. 12-13-01, passed 12-9-13; Am. Ord. 11-16-1, passed 11-14-16)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Outdoor and Open Burning
   
93.30   Purpose
   
93.31   Applicability
   
93.32   Severability
   
93.33   Definitions
   
93.34   General prohibition on outdoor burning and open burning
   
93.35   Open burning of refuse
   
93.36   Open burning of trees, logs, brush and stumps
   
93.37   Outdoor wood-fired furnace
   
93.38   Patio wood-burning units
   
93.39   Burn permits
   
93.40   Liability
   
93.41   Right of entry and inspection
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, “FIREWORKS” means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer” fireworks as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. “FIREWORKS” does not
include:
      (l)   Exception number l: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and comply with the construction, chemical composition,
and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The
types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited
as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed to produce audible
effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50
milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130
milligrams or less of explosive composition. “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” are further
defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500
and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as “NOVELTIES” and “TRICK
NOISEMAKERS” and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (l)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed l00 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams
of composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than l6 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, “DISPLAY FIREWORKS” means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (l30 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (l)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
93.02 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
      (4)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any common
fireworks listed in subsection (B) to any person under sixteen (16) years of
age.
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of
such official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person. “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” shall be defined as the
person with overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks
display. The competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an
assistant in firing at least five public displays. A “COMPETENT DISPLAY
OPERATOR” is also an employee possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall
be issued only to a competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least
one competent display operator shall be on site during display set-up and
firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit
application, as signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified
in this section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the state fire marshal or local fire chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State
Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this
privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division (A) shall be transferable. For the purposes of this division (A),
“PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as licensed by
the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a
competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall
be at least 18 years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal
shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A
to administer the provisions of this division. The regulations shall address
the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures that are
reasonably necessary to effectuate this subsection;
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in § 93.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000). However, the appropriate
city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their
judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages
which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the
permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within 5 business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see § 93.99
OUTDOOR AND OPEN BURNING
§ 93.30 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky by regulating the air
pollution and fire hazards of open burning and outdoor burning.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.31 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within
the city.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, clean wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a
building used for human or animal habitation.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.32 SEVERABILITY.
   Should a court or competent jurisdiction declare any portion of this
subchapter unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder of this subchapter shall
not be affected.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.33 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CAMP FIRE." A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste, wood or refuse.
   "CLEAN WOOD." Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   "CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE." Building waste materials, including but
not limited to shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
   "DEBRIS BURNER." A fire ring or fire pit enclosed by a metal or masonry
barrier that does not exceed three (3) feet square or three (3) feet diameter
of burning area.
   "FIRE OFFICIAL." The Fire Chief, Code Enforcement Officer, police officer or
any other person designated by the Mayor of the city to enforce this
subchapter.
   "MUNICIPALITY." A county, township, city or village.
   "OPEN BURNING." Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney, this includes burning in a burn barrel.
   "OUTDOOR BURNING." Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired furnace
or patio wood burning unit.
   "OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED FURNACE." A wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace that is
not located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   "PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT." A chimney, patio warmer, or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   "REFUSE." Any waste material, garbage, animal carcasses, and trash or
household material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, and other vegetative
matter.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.34 GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OUTDOOR BURNING AND OPEN BURNING.
   Except as provided in this subchapter, open burning and outdoor burning are
prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.35 OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE.
   Open burning of refuse, grass clippings, or leaves is prohibited in the
city.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.36 OPEN BURNING OF TREES, LOGS, BRUSH AND STUMPS.
   Open burning of trees, logs, brush and stumps is allowed only in accordance
with the following provisions:
   (A)   A permit in accordance with §
93.39 must be obtained prior to open burning under this section.
   (B)   Except for barbeque, gas, and charcoal grills, no open burning shall
be undertaken during periods when the Governor of Kentucky or Fleming County
Judge Executive has issued a burning ban applicable to the city.
   (C)   All allowed open burning shall not create a visibility hazard on
roadways, and all open burning shall be conducted in conformance with all local
and state protection regulations.
   (D)   Open burning shall be conducted only on the property on which the
materials were generated or naturally deposited.
   (E)   Outdoor campfires for cooking, ceremonies or recreation are allowed.
Campfires must be confined and in a properly placed debris burner constructed
of metal or masonry. Debris burners shall not be larger than three (3) feet
square or three (3) feet in diameter and located not less than twenty-five (25)
feet away from any building or not less than ten (10) feet from any adjoining
property line. Campfires must be supervised at all times by an adult eighteen
(18) years of age or older. No permit shall be required for such fires.
   (F)   Open burning under this section shall be conducted at least twenty-
five (25) feet from any building and 10 feet from any property line.
   (G)   Except for campfires, open burning shall only be conducted from
sunrise to sunset.
   (H)   Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a
competent person of at least eighteen (18) years of age until the fire is
extinguished and is cold. The person shall have readily available fire
extinguishing equipment as may be necessary for the total control of the fire.
One adult must be in attendance of each fire (three fires = three attendees).
The adults in attendance must be free from the effects of alcohol and/or
illegally used controlled substances and/or prescribed medications that may
impair proper judgment.
   (I)   Open burn fires must not exceed eight (8) feet in diameter or square.
   (J)   No material may be burned upon any street, curb, gutter, sidewalk, or
street right-of-way (this includes ditches).
   (K)   No fire may be set to a grown up area for the purpose of cleaning up
that area.
   (L)   Barbeque, gas, charcoal grills, and patio wood-burning units are
exempt under this section.
   (M)   The Fire Official shall have the authority to implement a temporary
burning ban due to environmental conditions including but not limited to high
winds or extremely dry conditions. The Fire Official shall make a reasonable
attempt to inform the public of the ban using available resources. If a
temporary burning ban is imposed, the Fire Official shall have the authority to
implement alternate burning times. The alternate burning times shall be
comparable in length to the temporary burning ban.
   (N)   The city may temporarily suspend any of the terms and conditions of
this subchapter for reasons it deems appropriate. The city, after consultation
with the Fire Official or the Fire Marshal, may allow additional open burning
times if a storm or storms result in large amounts of downed trees and
branches. Such additional open burns shall otherwise comply with the applicable
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.37 OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED FURNACE.
   An outdoor wood-fired furnace may be installed in the city only in
accordance with all of the following provisions:
   (A)   The outdoor wood-furnace shall not be used to burn refuse and used to
burn only clean wood.
   (B)   The outdoor wood-fired furnace shall be located at least fifty (50)
feet from the nearest residential dwelling which is not on the same property as
the outdoor wood fired furnace.
   (C)   The outdoor wood-fired furnace shall have a chimney that extends at
least fifteen (15) feet above ground surface or three (3) feet above the
building it serves, whichever is greater. The Fire Official may approve a
lesser height on a case-by-case basis if, in the opinion of the Fire Official,
it is necessary to comply with the manufacturers recommendations and if a lower
chimney height does not create a nuisance for neighbors.
   (D)   The owner of the outdoor wood-fired furnace shall obtain a permit from
the Fire Official prior to any installation and the final installation shall be
inspected by the Fire Official and only put into operation with written
approval from the Fire Official. The purpose of the Fire Official's inspection
will only be to ensure compliance with this subchapter and shall be considered
a safety inspection.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.38 PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNITS.
   A patio wood-burning unit may be installed and used in the city only in
accordance with all of the following provisions:
   (A)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
   (B)   The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean wood.
   (C)   The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least twenty- five
(25) feet from the nearest structure which is not on the same property as the
patio wood-burning unit.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.39 BURN PERMITS.
   (A)   For all fires not otherwise defined in this subchapter as exempt or
for fires which would otherwise result in the violation of specifications and
requirements of this subchapter, a permit shall be obtained through the City
Fire Official. The Fire Official has the discretion to issue all such permits.
The application for permit must be made to the City Fire Official at least ten
(10) days in advance of any such fire.
   (B)   A burning permit for special event fire is necessary. Special event
fires are those which occur in conjunction with commemorative or celebration
events that are sponsored by schools, municipalities and other charitable type
organizations. A person, partnership, firm, association, corporation, other
entity seeking a special event fire must make written application to, and
obtain from the city a permit for such fire. The application must be made to
the City Fire Official at least ten (10) days in advance of any such special
event fire.
   (C)   All applications for a burn permit must be accompanied by a fee of
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to cover the administrative costs of the issuance
of said burn permit.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.40 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire, with or without a burn
permit, shall be responsible for all fire suppression costs and any other
liability resulting from any damage caused said fire. Every permit issued shall
contain the express stipulation that the person obtaining the permit shall be
fully responsible for any damages resulting from said burn, and shall further
state that the permit applicant shall release the city from any and all
liability for said burn and agree to hold the city harmless from claims of
damages suffered by any third party.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.41 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Upon probable cause to believe a violation of this subchapter is occurring
in the city, the Fire Official or any authorized officer, agent, employee or
representative of the city and the Flemingsburg Volunteer Fire Department may
inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty
(30) days, or both.
(KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (C)   The enforcement authority for §§
93.30 through
93.41 shall be the City Fire Official.
      (1)   Any person in violation of§§
93.30 through
93.41 shall be issued a citation by the Fire Official. If the citation is not
contested the following penalties shall apply:
         (a)   First offense: $75.00;
         (b)   Second offense: $100.00;
         (c)   Third offense: $150.00.
      (2)   If the citation is contested and a hearing is requested in front of
the Code Enforcement Board, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at
the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
         (a)   First offense: $200.00;
         (b)   Second offense: $300.00;
         (c)    All others: $500.00.
(Ord. 3-09-1, passed 3-9-09)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Unlawful housing practices; exemptions
   
95.03   Unlawful financial practices or credit transactions
   
95.04   Blockbusting
   
95.05   Agency no defense
   
95.06   Fair Housing/Human Right Commission
   
95.07   Enforcement of Commission orders
   
95.08   Notice of violation by real estate dealer to be given to state
   
95.09   Civil remedies
   
95.10   Interpreter to be appointed for deaf or mute persons
   
95.11   Cooperation with state
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CREDIT TRANSACTION." Any open or closed-end credit transaction whether in
the nature of a loan, retail installment transaction, credit card issue or
charge, or otherwise, and whether for personal or for business purposes, in
which a service, finance, or interest charge is imposed, or which provides for
repayment in scheduled payments, when such credit is extended in the course of
the regular course of any trade or commerce, including but not limited to
transactions by banks, savings and loan associations, or other financial
lending institutions of whatever nature, stock brokers, or by a merchant or
mercantile establishment which as part of its ordinary business, permits or
provides that payment for purchases of property or services therefrom may be
deferred.
   "DISCRIMINATION." Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restrictions, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a
person or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin,
disability, sex, or age between 40 and 70 or the aiding, abetting, inciting,
coercing, or compelling thereof.
   "FINANCIAL INSTITUTION." A bank, banking organization, mortgage company,
insurance company, or other lender to whom application is made for financial
assistance for the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair, maintenance, or improvement of real property, or an individual employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   "HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS." Improved and unimproved property and means a
building, structure, lot, or part thereof which is used or occupied, or is
intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied as the home or residence
of one or more individuals.
   "PERSON." One or more individuals, labor unions, joint apprentice-ship
committees, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or other legal or commercial
entity; the state, any of its political or civil subdivisions or agencies.
   "REAL ESTATE BROKER" or "REAL ESTATE SALESMAN." An individual, whether
licensed or not, who, on behalf of others, for a fee, commission, salary, or
other valuable consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of
receiving or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or
leases real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or who
negotiates or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others such an activity; or
who advertises or holds himself out as engaged in such activities; or who
negotiates or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others a loan secured by
mortgage or other encumbrance upon a transfer of real estate, or who is engaged
in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for collection of a
fee in connection with a contract whereby he undertakes to promote the sale,
purchase, exchange, rental, or lease of real estate through its listing in a
publication issued primarily for such purpose; or an individual employed by or
acting on behalf of any of these.
   "REAL ESTATE OPERATOR." Any individual or combination of individuals, labor
unions, joint apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, jointstock companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or
other legal or commercial entity, the county or any of its agencies, that is
engaged in the business of selling, purchasing, exchanging, renting, or leasing
real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or that derives
income, in whole or in part, from the sale, purchase, exchange, rental, or
lease of real estate; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any
of these.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums, and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
(KRS 344.010)(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
§ 95.02 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is an unlawful practice for a real estate operator, or for a real
estate broker, real estate salesman, or an individual employed by or acting on
behalf of any of these to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell, exchange, rent, or lease or otherwise deny to or
withhold real property from an individual because of his race, color, religion,
national origin, disability, or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against an individual because of his race, color,
religion, national origin, disability, or sex in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale, exchange, rental or lease of real property or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (3)   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to purchase, rent,
or lease real property from an individual because of his race, color, religion,
national origin, disability, or sex;
      (4)   Refuse to negotiate for the sale, rental, or lease of real property
to an individual because of his race, color, religion, national origin,
disability, or sex;
      (5)   Represent to an individual that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is so available, or to
refuse to permit an individual to inspect real property because of his race,
color, religion, national origin, disability or sex;
      (6)   Print, circulate, post, or mail or cause to be printed, circulated,
posted, or mailed an advertisement or sign, or to use a form of application for
the purchase, rental, or lease of real property, or to make a record of inquiry
in connection with the prospective purchase, rental, or lease of real property,
which indicates, directly or indirectly, a limitation, specification, or
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin, disability, or sex
or an intent to make such a limitation, specification, or discrimination;
      (7)   Offer, solicit, accept, use, or retain a listing of real property
for sale, rental, or lease with the understanding that an individual may be
discriminated against in the sale, rental, or lease of that real property or in
the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith because of his
race, color, religion, national origin, disability or sex; or
      (8)   Otherwise deny to or withhold real property from an individual
because of his race, color, religion, national origin, disability or sex.
(KRS 344.360)
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall apply to:
      (1)   The rental of a housing accommodation in a building which contains
housing accommodations for not more than two families living independently of
each other, if the owner or a member of his family resides in one of the
housing accommodations;
      (2)   The rental of one room or one rooming unit in a housing
accommodation by an individual if he or a member of his family resides therein;
      (3)   A religious institution, or to an organization operated for
charitable or educational purposes, which is operated, supervised, or
controlled by a religious corporation, association, or society, to the extent
that the religious corporation, association, or society, limits, or gives
preferences in, the sale, lease, rental, assignment, or sublease of real
property to individuals of the same religion, or makes a selection of buyers,
tenants, lessees, assignees, or sublessees, that is calculated by such
religious corporation, association, or society to promote the religious
principles for which it is established or maintained.
      (4)   The private sale by a private individual homeowner who disposes of
his property without the aid of any real estate operator, broker, or salesman
and without advertising or public display.
      (5)   A real estate operator to require him to negotiate with any
individual who has not shown evidence of financial ability to consummate the
purchase or rental of a housing accommodation.
(KRS 344.365)
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to:
      (1)   The YMCA, YWCA, and similar type single-sex dormitory rental
properties, including but not limited to those dormitories operated by
institutions of higher education;
      (2)   A landlord who refuses to rent to an unmarried couple of opposite
sex; or
      (3)   A landlord who chooses to rent only to men or only to women;
provided that the landlord engages in the rental to no more than ten persons or
of no more than ten self-contained units in an owner-occupied housing
accommodation; or
      (4)   Rooms or rental units where tenants would be required to share
common bath or kitchen facilities.
(KRS 344.362)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL FINANCIAL PRACTICES OR CREDIT TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It is an unlawful practice for a financial institution or an
individual employed by or acting on behalf of a financial institution to:
      (1)   Discriminate against an individual because of the race, color,
religion, national origin, disability, sex, or age of the individual or the
present or prospective owner, tenant, or occupant of the real property or of a
member, stockholder, director, officer, employee, or representative of any of
these, in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, the
rates, terms, conditions, privileges, or other provisions of financial
assistance or in the extension of services in connection therewith; or
      (2)   Use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or
keep a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial
assistance which indicate directly or indirectly a limitation, specification,
or discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin, disability, or
sex or an intent to make such a limitation, specification, or discrimination;
or
      (3)   Discriminate by refusing to give full recognition, because of sex,
to the income of each spouse or the total income and expenses of both spouses
where both spouses become or are prepared to become joint or several obligors
in real estate transactions.
(KRS 344.370) (Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful practice for any person, whether acting for
himself or another, in connection with any credit transaction because of race,
color, religion, national origin, disability, or sex to deny credit to any
person; increase the charges or fees for or collateral required to secure any
credit extended to any person; restrict the amount or use of credit extended or
impose different terms or conditions with respect to the credit extended to any
person or any item or service related thereto; or attempt to do any of the
unlawful practices defined in this division.
      (1)   The provisions of this division shall not prohibit any party to a
credit transaction from considering the credit history of any individual
applicant.
      (2)   The provisions of this division shall not prohibit any party to a
credit transaction from considering the application of state law on dower,
curtesy, or descent and distribution to the particular case or from taking
reasonable action thereon.
(KRS 344.400)
§ 95.04 BLOCKBUSTING.
   It is unlawful practice for a real estate operator, a real estate broker, a
real estate salesman, a financial institution, an employee of any of these, or
any other person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate transaction from
which he may benefit financially to:
   (A)   Represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in the
composition with respect to race, color, religion, sex, disability, or national
origin of the owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood, or area in which
the real property is located; or
   (B)   Represent that this change will or may result in the lowering of
property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a decline
in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property is located.
(KRS 344.380) (Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
§ 95.05 AGENCY NO DEFENSE.
   It shall be no defense to a violation of this chapter by a real estate
operator, real estate broker, real estate salesman, financial institution, or
other person subject to the provisions of this chapter that the violation was
requested, sought, or otherwise procured by a person not subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 344.375) (Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
§ 95.06 FAIR HOUSING/HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Flemingsburg Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission shall consist of
five members who shall be appointed on a nonpartisan basis and shall be broadly
representative of the financial institutions, real estate businesses, religious
groups, human rights groups, and the institutions, real estate businesses,
religious groups, human rights groups, and the general public. The Mayor shall
appoint the members, to be approved by the City Council. Appointments shall be
for three (3) years. In the event of incapacity, death, or resignation of any
member, a successor shall be appointed for the member's unexpired term. Members
shall be eligible for reappointment. Before making new appointments or any
reappointments, the Mayor may request the recommendations of the City Council.
No elected or appointed city official shall be a member of the Commission. The
members shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   The Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission is authorized to:
      (1)   Receive, initiate, investigate, hear, and determine charges of
violations of ordinances, orders, or resolutions forbidding discrimination
adopted by the city. The City Clerk-Treasurer is to receive such complaints and
furnish a copy to the Chairman of the Commission and the Mayor.
      (2)   Compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence
before it by subpoena issued by the Fleming County Circuit Court.
      (3)   Issue remedial orders, after notice and hearing, requiring
cessation of violations.
      (4)   Issue such affirmative orders as in its judgment will carry out the
purposes of this chapter. Affirmative action ordered may include, but not be
limited to the remedies enumerated in KRS 344.230(3).
      (5)   Employ an executive director, attorneys, hearing examiners, clerks,
and other employees and agents.
      (6)   Accept grants, gifts, or bequests, public or private, to help
finance its activities.
(KRS 344.320)
   (C)   The Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission may also:
      (1)   Enter into cooperative working agreements with the United States
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in order to achieve the purposes of
that agency; and with any federal or state agency in order to achieve the
purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   In its discretion, or upon request of the State Commission on Human
Rights, refer a matter under its jurisdiction to the State Commission on Human
Rights, for initial action or review.
      (3)   Refer to the State Commission on Human Rights for resolution, a
dispute over jurisdiction or other matter with another local commission.
      (4)   Provide a copy of its annual report to the State Commission on
Human Rights.
(KRS 344.330)
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
§ 95.07 ENFORCEMENT OF COMMISSION ORDERS.
   (A)   The proceeding for enforcement of an order of the Fair Housing/Human
Rights Commission shall be initiated by filing a complaint in the Circuit
Court. Copies of the complaint shall be served upon all parties of record.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the filing of the complaint by the Fair Housing/
Human Rights Commission, or within such further time as the Court may allow,
the Commission shall transmit to the Court the original or certified copy of
the entire record upon which the order is based, including a transcript of
testimony, which need not be printed. By stipulation of all parties to the
proceeding, the record may be shortened.
   (C)   The findings of fact of the Commission shall be conclusive unless
clearly erroneous in view of the probative and substantial evidence on the
whole record.
   (D)   The Court shall have power to grant such temporary relief or
restraining order as it deems just, and to enter an order enforcing, modifying,
and enforcing as modified, or setting aside in whole or in part the order of
the Commission, or remanding the case to the Kentucky Human Rights Commission
for further proceedings. All such proceedings shall be heard and determined by
the Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals as expeditiously as possible and
with lawful precedence over other matters.
(KRS 344.340)(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-4-80)
§ 95.08 NOTICE OF VIOLATION BY REAL ESTATE DEALER TO BE GIVEN TO STATE.
   Where a real estate broker or a real estate salesman has failed to comply
with an order issued by the Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission or has been
found to have committed an unfair housing practice in violation of §
95.04, the Commission shall notify in writing the State Real Estate Commission
of that failure to comply or the violation.
(KRS 344.385)
§ 95.09 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   Any person deeming himself injured by any act in violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall have a civil cause of action in Fleming County Circuit
Court to enjoin further violations, and to recover the actual damages sustained
by him, together with the costs of the lawsuit, including a reasonable fee for
his attorney of record, all of which shall be in addition to any other remedies
contained in this chapter.
(KRS 344.450)
§ 95.10 INTERPRETER TO BE APPOINTED FOR DEAF OR MUTE PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person who is deaf, mute, or both, or who because of a hearing,
speaking, or other impairment has difficulty in communicating with other
persons shall be entitled to the assistance and services of a qualified
interpreter.
   (B)   A qualified interpreter shall be appointed in any proceeding before
the Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission when the principal party in interest
or a witness is deaf, mute, or both.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed as an interpreter pursuant to this
section unless a preliminary determination is made to determine that the
interpreter is able to readily communicate with the person who is deaf, mute,
or both; is able to accurately repeat and translate the statements of said
person; and who is agreed to by the person who is deaf, mute, or both.
   (D)   Upon request, the State Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf, or the
State School for the Deaf, shall recommend qualified interpreters to assist a
person who is deaf, mute, or both.
   (E)   Compensation shall be set for each day the interpreter is in
attendance. Compensation, plus any reasonable expenses incurred by the
interpreter, shall be paid from the funds of the Fair Housing/Human Rights
Commission.
(KRS 344.500)
§ 95.11 COOPERATION WITH STATE.
   The Fair Housing/Human Rights Commission may enter into cooperative working
agreements with other local commissions which have enforceable ordinances,
orders, or resolutions and professional staff.
(KRS 344.350)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board
   
96.01   Establishment
   
96.02   Composition; appointment approval
   
96.03   Residence requirement
   
96.04   Powers and duties
FLEMINGSBURG/FLEMING COUNTY RECREATION BOARD
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established, pursuant to KRS 97.035, the
Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 3-2-81)
§ 96.02 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT APPROVAL.
   The Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board shall be composed of eight
members, four of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of Flemingsburg, and four
of whom shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive of Fleming County. Of
the appointments, the Mayor and County Judge/Executive shall each appoint one
member for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years, and
one member for four years. Each following appointment or reappointment shall be
made for a four-year term.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 3-2-81; Am. Ord. 5-84-1, passed 5-31-84)
§ 96.03 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   All members appointed to the Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board
shall reside within Fleming County. No Recreation Board member shall hold any
office with the city or the county.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 3-2-81)
§ 96.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Flemingsburg/Fleming County Recreation Board herein established
shall have all of the powers, functions, and duties authorized by state law,
except as restricted herein, and in addition thereto, the city hereby delegates
such other powers to the Recreation Board as are necessary in carrying out its
operations and activities.
   (B)   The Board shall not incur any debt which cannot be paid from current
year revenue in any year, which shall include all appropriations from the city
and county, except revenue bonds. All salaries of any employees of the Board
shall be subject to approval by the City Council and the County Fiscal Court.
No revenue bonds shall be issued by this body without express approval by the
City Council and the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 3-2-81)
CHAPTER 97: BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Acquisition of blighted property by city
   
97.03   Certification of blight deterioration; notice to owner
   
97.04   Eminent domain proceedings by the city
   
97.05   Prohibited practices and required disclosures
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context otherwise requires a different meaning.
   "BLIGHTED" or "DETERIORATED." Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved
lot or parcel of ground in a predominantly built-up neighborhood:
      (a)   Which because of physical condition or use is regarded as a public
nuisance at common law or has been declared a public nuisance in accordance
with state or city housing, building, plumbing, fire or related codes;
      (b)   Which because of physical condition, use or occupancy is considered
an attractive nuisance to children, including but not limited to abandoned
wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or structures;
      (c)   Which because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin-
infested or lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the housing
code of the city, has been designated by the department responsible for
enforcement of the code as unfit for human habitation;
      (d)   Which is a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (e)   From which the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage or other
facilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
      (f)   Which by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a
place for accumulation of trash and debris, or a haven for rodents or other
vermin;
      (g)   Which has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three (3)
years; or
      (h)   Which has not been rehabilitated within the time constraints placed
upon the owner by the appropriate code-enforcement agency.
   “CITY.” The city of Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
   “FLEMINGSBURG CITY COUNCIL.” The legislative body of the city.
   “MAYOR.” The executive authority of the city.
   "REDEVELOPMENT." The planning or replanning, design or redesign,
acquisition, clearance, development and disposal or any combination of these,
of a property in the preparation of such property for residential and related
uses, as may be appropriate or necessary.
   "RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USE." Residential property for sale or rental and
related uses; including, but not limited to, park and recreation areas,
neighborhood community service, and neighborhood parking lots.
(Am. Ord. 12-16-1, passed 12-12-16)
Statutory reference:
   Blighted and Deteriorated Properties, Definitions, see KRS 99.705
§ 97.02 ACQUISITION OF BLIGHTED PROPERTY BY CITY.
   The city may acquire, by eminent domain pursuant to KRS Chapter 416, any
property determined to be blighted or deteriorated pursuant to this chapter and
shall have the power to hold, clear, manage or dispose of property so acquired
for residential and related use, pursuant to the provisions of KRS 99.705 to
KRS 99.730.
(KRS 99.715)
(Am. Ord. 12-16-1, passed 12-12-16)
§ 97.03 CERTIFICATION OF BLIGHT DETERIORATION; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The city shall not institute eminent domain proceedings pursuant to
this chapter and KRS 99.705 through KRS 99.730 unless the Flemingsburg Code
Enforcement Board has certified that the property is blighted or deteriorated.
   (B)   A property referred to the Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board by a
city agency as blighted or deteriorated may only be certified to the city
council as blighted or deteriorated after the Flemingsburg Code Enforcement
Board has determined:
      (1)   That the owner of the property or designated agent has been sent an
order by the appropriate city or county agency to eliminate the conditions
which are in violation of local codes or law;
      (2)   That the property is vacant;
      (3)   That the property is blighted and deteriorated;
      (4)   That the Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board has notified the
property owner or designated agent that the property has been determined to be
blighted or deteriorated and the time period for correction of such condition
has expired and the property, owner or agent has failed to comply with the
notice, and
      (5)   That the Flemingsburg-Fleming County Planning Commission has
determined that the reuse of the property for residential and related use is in
keeping with the comprehensive plan.
   (C)   The findings required by subsection (A) of this section shall be in
writing and included in the report to the city council.
   (D)   The Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board shall notify the owner of the
property or a designated agent that a determination of blight or deterioration
has been made and that failure to eliminate the conditions causing the blight
shall render the property subject to condemnation by the city under KRS 99.705
to 99.730. Notice shall be mailed to the owner or designated agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested. However, if the address of the owner or a
designated agent is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Flemingsburg Code
Enforcement Board in the exercise of reasonable diligence, copies of the notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the property affected. The written
notice sent to the owner or his agent shall describe the conditions that render
the property blighted and deteriorated, and shall demand abatement of the
conditions within ninety (90) days of the receipt of such notice.
   (E)   An extension of the ninety (90) day time period may be granted by the
Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board if the owner or designated agent
demonstrates that such period is insufficient to correct the conditions cited
in the notice. (KRS 99.720)
(Am. Ord. 12-16-1, passed 12-12-16)
§ 97.04 EMINENT DOMAIN PROCEEDINGS BY THE CITY.
   The city council may institute eminent domain proceedings pursuant to KRS
Chapter 416 against any property which has been certified as blighted or
deteriorated by the Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board if it finds:
   (A)   That such property has deteriorated to such extent as to constitute a
serious and growing menace to the public health, safety and welfare;
   (B)   That such property is likely to continue to deteriorate unless
corrected;
   (C)   That the continued deterioration of such property may contribute to
the blighting or deterioration of the area immediately surrounding the
property; and
   (D)   That the owner of such property has failed to correct the
deterioration of the property. (KRS 99.725)
(Am. Ord. 12-16-1, passed 12-12-16)
§ 97.05 PROHIBITED PRACTICES AND REQUIRED DISCLOSURES.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or of the Flemingsburg Code
Enforcement Board, who in the course of his duties is required to participate
in the determination of property blight or deterioration or the issuance of
notices on code violations which may lead to a determination of blight or
deterioration, shall acquire any interest in any property declared to be
blighted or deteriorated.
   (B)   If any such officer or employee owns or has financial interest, direct
or indirect, in any property certified to be blighted or deteriorated, he shall
immediately disclose, in writing, such interest to the Flemingsburg Code
Enforcement Board and to the city council and such disclosure shall be entered
in the minutes of the Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board and of the city
council. Failure to so disclose such interest shall constitute misconduct in
office.
   (C)   No payment shall be made to any officer or employee for any property
or interest therein acquired by the city from such officer or employee unless
the amount of such payment is fixed by court order in eminent domain
proceedings, or unless payment is unanimously approved by the city council.
(KRS 99.730)
(KRS 99.730)
(Am. Ord. 12-16-1, passed 12-12-16)
Cross-reference:
   Code of Ethics,
Ch. 38
CHAPTER 98: NOISE REGULATION
Section
   
98.01   Statement of policy and intent
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Excessive noise prohibited
   
98.04   Unlawful to operate sound truck
   
98.05   Blowing of horns, bells, and other devices
   
98.06   Unreasonably loud radios, stereos, and other loudspeaker equipment
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the city to establish by this chapter a comprehensive
noise regulation program and noise control plan as authorized pursuant to KRS
224.30 et seq. In adopting this chapter the City Council finds as follows:
   (A)   Excessive noise is a serious hazard to the public health, welfare and
quality of life.
   (B)   A substantial body of science, technology and law exists by which
noise levels can be accurately measured and excessive noise eliminated or
abated.
   (C)   Every person has a right to an environment free from noise that
jeopardizes his or her health, welfare or quality of life.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CONTINUOUS NOISE DISTURBANCE." Any noise disturbance which exists,
essentially without interruption, for a period of five (5) minutes or more.
   "DEVICE." Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually
produces, noise when operated or handled, including, but not limited to, any
loudspeaker, public address system, or mobile sound vehicle.
   "DWELLING UNIT." One (1) room or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by a family as
owner, or as rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis and
physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the
same building, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   "DWELLING UNIT BOUNDARY." A real or imaginary boundary which separates one
(1) dwelling unit from another dwelling unit, including but not limited to
walls, ceilings and floors in a building containing more than one (1) dwelling
unit or, in situation involving detached single-dwelling units, the real
property boundary line of the unit.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Every vehicle defined as a motor vehicle in KRS 189.010.
   "NOISE DISTURBANCE." Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or
health of humans and animals; annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities; or endangers or injures personal or real property.
   "POWERED MODEL VEHICLE." Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or land
borne plane, vessel or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." A place to which the public or a substantial group or
persons has access, including but not limited to, highways, transportation
facilities, schools, places of amusements, parks, places of business,
playgrounds and hallways, lobbies and other portions of apartment houses and
hotels not constituting rooms or apartments designed for actual residence.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any excessive noise that jeopardizes the health, welfare or quality
of life of others within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
Statutory reference:
   Noise control, see KRS 224.710 et seq.
§ 98.04 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE SOUND TRUCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or cause
to be operated any vehicle or truck known as a sound truck when the operation
includes the sounding of, or causing to be sounded, any bell or horn amplifier,
loud speaker, radio, record player, or any other mechanical sound or noise-
producing instrument or appliance operated by hand, steam, air, or electricity
or other means. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
operate or cause to be operated any such vehicle or truck in the manner
hereinabove described at any other place or places within the corporate limits
of the city, except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Because the
vehicle or truck, when so operated, tends to and does disturb the public peace
and tranquility, interferes with traffic, and endangers the public safety,
welfare, and life and property.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.05 BLOWING OF HORNS, BELLS, AND OTHER DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, in the operation
of any motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the city, to blow or cause
to be blown, any horn, bell, or other device of warning unless the blowing or
sounding shall be necessary in the avoidance of a collision with other vehicles
or pedestrians, because the excessive and unnecessary horn blowing and noise
making tends to and does disturb the public peace and tranquility, interferes
with traffic, and endangers the public safety, and life and property.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.06 UNREASONABLY LOUD RADIOS, STEREOS, AND OTHER LOUDSPEAKER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The following acts are in violation of this section:
      (1)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation, for any
commercial purpose, or any loudspeaker, public address system, or any other
device amplifying sound which creates a continuous noise disturbance on a
public right-of-way or public place.
      (2)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation, for any
noncommercial purpose, of any loudspeaker, public address system, or any other
device to amplify sound which creates a continuous noise disturbance across a
dwelling unit boundary between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (3)   Operating or permitting the operation of a powered model vehicle so
as to create a continuous noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary or
in a public place between the house of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (4)   Operating, playing or permitting the operation of playing any
radio, stereo, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument or similar
devices:
         (a)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. And 7:00 a.m. In such a manner
as to create a continuous noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary; or
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a continuous noise disturbance at
fifty (50) feet from the device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a
public right-of-way, public place or private property.
      (5)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying, testing or operating any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motor bicycle, or motor boat in such a manner as to cause
a continuing noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary.
      (6)   Keeping or harboring within the city any dog that barks or yelps or
otherwise creates a continuous noise disturbance across a dwelling unit
boundary.
      (7)   Making, continuing, or causing to be made or continued, any
continuous noise disturbance, including yelling, screaming, cursing, or other
verbal outbursts, across a dwelling boundary line.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A) above, the following
shall be allowed and shall not be a violation of this section:
      (1)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work.
      (2)   Organized school-related programs, activities or events; parades or
other public programs, activities or events authorized by the Mayor or his
designated representative.
      (3)   The discharge of firearms by member of the Police Department or
other sworn peace officers.
      (4)   Noncommercial public speaking and public assembly activities
conduct by any public place or public right-of-way.
      (5)   City-owned bird cannons are allowed from one hour before dusk until
one (1) hour after dusk.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   The Mayor or his designated representative shall have the
authority, consistent with this section, to grant special variances. Any person
seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall file an application
with the Mayor or his designated representative. The application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
for which the special variance is sought into compliance with this section
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community,
or on other persons. Notice of an application for a special variance shall be
given by the Mayor or his representative to persons who frequent the area of
the sound or activity and who may be adversely affected by the granting of the
variance. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by the allowance
of the special variance may file a statement with the Mayor or his
representative containing any information to support his claim.
      (2)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the Mayor
or his designated representative shall balance the hardship to the applicant,
the community, and other persons of not granting the special variance against
the adverse impact on property affected and any other adverse impact of
granting the special variance. Applicants for special variances and persons
contesting special variances may be required to submit any information the
Mayor or his representative may reasonably require. In granting or denying an
application, the Mayor or his representatives shall place on public file a copy
of the decision and reasons for denying or granting the special variances.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter are within the jurisdiction of the City of
Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this chapter may be issued
a Notice of Violation. The notice shall specify a period of time the offender
has to remedy the violation. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the
violation, the offender may be issued a citation by an office of the city. If
the officer believes that the violation presents a serious threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare, or if, in the absence of immediate action, the
effects of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible, or the violation
is a repeated violation, enforcement officer may issue a citation without a
Notice of Violation. If the citation is not contested by the person, firm, or
corporation charged with the violation, the following penalties shall apply;
however, the enforcement board may waive all or any portion of said penalty if,
in its discretion, the enforcement board determines that such waiver will
promote compliance.
      (1)   First offense: $ 10.00;
      (2)   Second offense: $25.00;
      (3)   Third offense: $ 50.00.
   (C)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the enforcement
board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the enforcement board:
      (1)   First offense: $50.00;
      (2)   Second offense: $75.00;
      (3)   Third offense: $100.00.
(Ord. 4-08-1, passed 4-29-08)
CHAPTER 99: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Definitions
City Tree Board
   
99.10   Creation
   
99.11   Term of office
   
99.12   Compensation
   
99.13   Operation
   
99.14   Duties and responsibilities
   
99.15   Interference with City Tree Board
   
99.16   Review by City Council
Requirements
   
99.25   Street tree species to be planted
   
99.26   Spacing
   
99.27   Distance from curb, sidewalk, and power lines
   
99.28   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
99.29   Public tree care
   
99.30   Tree topping prohibited
   
99.31   Pruning; corner clearance
   
99.32   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   “PARK TREES.” Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
   “STREET TREES.” Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines and either side of all streets, avenues, or
alley ways within the city.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
CITY TREE BOARD
§ 99.10 CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the city which
shall consist of five (5) members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.11 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only one (1) year, and the term of two (2) members of the
first Board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.12 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.13 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers and keep minutes of its meetings. A
majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.14 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. The plan will be
presented annually to the City Council and, upon their acceptance and approval,
shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Codes Enforcement Officer or any city personnel while they are engaged in
and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing
of any street tree, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in
this chapter.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
§ 99.16 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the decisions of the City
Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the City Tree
Board to the City Council, who may hear the matter and make the final decision.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 99.25 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Tree Board will formulate an official street tree species list for the
city. The list of all allowable species shall be broken down into categories of
small, medium, and large trees.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.26 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) species
classes referred to in §
99.25 and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, thirty (30) feet; medium trees, forty (40) feet; and large trees, fifty
(50) feet, except in special plantings approved by the City Codes Enforcement
Officer.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.27 DISTANCE FROM CURB, SIDEWALK, AND POWER LINES.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three (3) species size classes listed in §
99.25, and not trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two (2) feet; medium trees, three (3) feet; and large
trees, four (4) feet. Only small trees can be planted within fifteen (15) feet
of power lines.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than twenty (20) feet to any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No
street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet of any fire plug.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.29 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, general
utility easements and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds
in accordance with the approved. The city, in accordance with the Plan and in
coordination with the City Codes Enforcement Officer, may remove or cause or
order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.30 TREE TOPPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to cut any street tree, park
tree, or other tree on public property.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.31 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of
the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or
dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. It shall be the duty of the City Codes Enforcement
Officer of the City of Flemingsburg, or other responsible officer designated by
the Mayor, to notify the owner of any real estate within the city of a
condition which constitutes a menace to the safety of the public, directing the
property owner to comply with this subsection. Said notice shall contain a
provision for the property owner to abate the menace within five (5) days
unless the menace constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well being
of the public. If the menace constitutes an immediate danger, the owner shall
abate the danger within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of the notice. Notice
shall be served upon owners by certified mail, but if the whereabouts of the
owner is unknown and cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the City Codes Enforcement Officer shall make an affidavit to that
effect, and the serving of notice shall then be made by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation for two (2) consecutive issues. If the owner
so served does not abate the menace within the prescribed amount of time, the
city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when
it interferes with the proper spreading of light along the street from a street
light, or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.32 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and public property. The City Codes Enforcement Officer will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove such trees, and charge the cost of said removal as a
miscellaneous additional charge on the owner's property tax bill notice.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 12-12-1, passed 12-10-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
   
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
   
112.   PAWNBROKERS
   
113.   INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
   
114.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
   
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
116.    BUSINESS INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   117. MOBILE SELF-CONTAINED FOOD UNIT VENDORS PROGRAM
   118. MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License application required
   
110.03   License tax payment required
   
110.04   Regulatory license fees for temporaries
   
110.05   Payment of estimated tax quarterly
   
110.06   Apportionment
   
110.07   Employers to withhold
   
110.08   Returns required
   
110.09   Extensions
   
110.10   Refunds
   
110.11   Federal audit provisions
   
110.12   Administrative provisions
   
110.13   Information to remain confidential
   
110.14   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. "BUSINESS" shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. "BUSINESS" shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   "BUSINESS ENTITY." Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   "CITY." The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
   "COMPENSATION." Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   "CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   "FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The revenue agent's report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   "FISCAL YEAR." An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of
any month other than December.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person who renders services to another person or any
business entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any
officer, employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any
political subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one
(1) or more of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor
under the Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   "EMPLOYER." The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term "employer" means the person having control of the payment of such
wages; and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term "employer" means such
person.
   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE." The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 1,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2003, that would
otherwise terminate.
   "NET PROFIT." Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   "PERSON." Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word "PERSON" is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   "RETURN" or "REPORT." Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   "SALES REVENUE." Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   "TAX DISTRICT." Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy net profits, or occupational license taxes.
   "TAXABLE NET PROFIT." In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the city means net profit as defined in the definition of
"NET PROFIT" provided in this section.
   "TAXABLE NET PROFIT." In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the city means net profit as provided in the
definition of "NET PROFIT" in this section, and as apportioned under §
110.04 .
   "TAXABLE YEAR." The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business, or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business, or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.03 LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit an any person or business
entity that makes a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the Kentucky
Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an annual
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by one point
five percent (1.5%) of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity, or a minimum of seventy-five dollars ($75),
whichever is greater.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, or trust,
banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky national guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07; Am. Ord. 6-24-1, passed 6-10-24)
§ 110.04 REGULATORY LICENSE FEES FOR TEMPORARIES.
   (A)   The city hereby finds that the following occupations are of such a
nature as to require special regulation and supervision and therefore the
following minimum license fees are imposed on every person engaged in the
business, occupation, calling or profession, or using, holding or exhibiting
articles named in this section who shall pay in advance to the city for each
calendar year (or fraction thereof in the case of a new business) the license
fee or fees herein set forth which payment shall be a credit on the license fee
as otherwise provided in §
110.03 of this chapter; provided, however, that where minimum fees are set
forth in the following table for a period of less than one (1) year the same
shall be considered as the minimum fee due for the period set forth in the
table and shall be paid in advance of engaging in the activity.
   (B)   If a licensee is engaged in more than one (1) type of activity in one
business entity, the highest minimum license fee shall apply. In the following
table the words "before showing" shall mean that the license fee per showing is
due prior to the date of each showing. Where the word "yearly" appears, the
same shall mean that the minium fee shall be due on or before the first day of
January, and shall be for the ensuing year ending December 31 and for a like
period of time for each succeeding year thereafter.
   (C)   In no event shall any minimum fee set forth under this section be
reduced for the reason that the business or activity covering same shall have
been commenced subsequent to the first day of January of the tax year.
Fee Schedule
Occupations Fee
Fee Schedule
Occupations                                                                     Fee
CARNIVALS regardless of local sponsorship, per week (before showing)            $200.00
CIRCUSES, regardless of local sponsorship, per week (before showing)            $200.00
CITY DIRECTORY, twelve (12) free copies of city directory                       $50.00
DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESMEN, whether itinerant or not, each salesman, yearly          $25.00
NURSERYMEN, ITINERANT, yearly                                                   $25.00
PEDDLERS:
(1)   Produce grown or produced in the county                                Exempt
(2)   General peddlers, yearly                                               $25.00
(3)   Peddlers participating in festivals sponsored by organizations defined Exempt
exempt under §
110.01, definition of "BUSINESS"
PINBALL, JUKEBOX, ETC., Every person conducting or engaging in the business of
operating, renting, leasing, selling, distributing or installing any machine
board, table or device where same is operated by the insertion of a coin, or
any counter device where same is operated or otherwise, used for amusement or
skill, same and except those used solely for the purpose of vending chewing     $10.00
gum, peanuts, candy, cigarettes, or other merchandise and about which there is
no element of amusement or skill, shall pay a license fee per machine. License
shall be publicly displayed on each machine each year, this amount each
machine, yearly
 
(Ord. 12-7-01, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.05 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED TAX QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to
taxation under this chapter, shall make quarterly estimated tax payments on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and twelfth month of each
taxable year if the tax liability for the taxable year exceeds five thousand
dollars ($5,000).
   (B)   The quarterly estimated tax payments required under division (A) of
this section shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent (22.5%) of the current taxable year
tax liability;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent (25%) of the preceding full year taxable year
tax liability; or
      (3)   Twenty-five percent (25%) of the average tax liability for the
three (3) preceding full year taxable years' liabilities if the tax liability
for any of the three (3) preceding full taxable years exceeded twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000).
   (C)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly payment
required under division (B) of this section by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum simple
interest on the amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) of
this section from the earlier of:
      (1)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (B) of this section; or
      (2)   The due date of the annual return. A fraction of a month is counted
as an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity's first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity's tax liability exceeds five
thousand dollars ($5,000).
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.06 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, net profit shall
be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one (1) tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two (2); and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one (1) tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one (1) or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one (1) or more additional factors which will
fairly represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E) When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services performed
or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the license tax
shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable as a result
of the work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The license
tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for
work performed or services rendered within the city bears to the total wages
and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to verify the accuracy
of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this subsection, the taxpayer shall
maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is "passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
"passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.07 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
110.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to the employees.
Either copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax
statements, or a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent
information, as determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
subsection unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for,
or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed
by this chapter became or become due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
110.03 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.08 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   Every business entity making payments of six hundred dollars ($600.00)
or more to persons other than employees for services performed within the city
are responsible for maintaining the records of those payments and for
completing IRS Form 1099 on or before February 28 of the year following the
close of the calendar year in which such compensation was paid. A copy of said
IRS Form 1099 shall be remitted to the city for each non-employee who performs
services within the city for such non-employee compensation.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.09 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six (6) months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal
Revenue Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing
its return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for
payment of the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the
amount properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum simple
interest on the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from
the time the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to
the city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.10 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.07 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on the time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of a return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient
to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   In the case where the tax computed under the provisions of this
chapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated
tax for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is requested,
shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (D)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated tax in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated tax
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or nonpayment of tax for any previous taxable year;
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated tax paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.11 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five (5) years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates the
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of net profit stated on the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six (6) years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this subsection, or six (6) months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this subsection may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this section, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the federal
audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.12 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance
may be refunded or credited within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law
for the filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city,
whichever is later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.11 of this chapter has been extended by an agreement between the business
entity and the city, the limitation contained in this subsection shall be
extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this section or six
(6) months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subsection and division (A) of this
section, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.13 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's property authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in court, or from introducing
as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an action for
violation of tax district law or in any action challenging a tax district tax
laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.14 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
ordinance shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city's
general revenue fund.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month
or fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report, annual or quarterly, on or
before the due date prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this subsection shall not
exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total tax due; however, the penalty
shall not be less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
110.07 of this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to five
percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The
total penalty levied pursuant to this section shall not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
twenty-five dollars ($25). This subsection also applies to any quarterly tax
estimate where the payment submitted with the estimate is less than that
required by §
110.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve
percent (12%) per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not
previously paid, from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month. This section also
applies to any quarterly tax estimate where the payment submitted with the
estimate is less than that required by §
110.05 of this chapter.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§§
110.03 and
110.04 of this chapter and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in
divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) of this section by civil action in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it
in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.13 of this chapter by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500) or imprisoned for not longer than six (6) months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.13 of this chapter by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned for not more
than one (1) year, or both.
(Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS." Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT." Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR." Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging is such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set forth
in §
110.03.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)    The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)    The local address of such individual;
         (c)    The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)    The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)    The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)    If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A)   above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
"Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Pawnbroker/precious metal dealers license
   
112.03   Restrictions on receipt of articles
   
112.04   Register of loans and purchases required
   
112.05   Receipt and sales of pawned articles
   
112.06   Maximum interest; service charges
   
112.07   Receipt for payments
   
112.08   Daily reports
   
112.09   Restrictions on resell of items purchases
   
112.10   Prohibited transactions
   
112.11   Reporting requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalties
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “PAWNBROKER.” Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property, or
who deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the
property back again at a stipulated price, or who makes a public display at his
place of business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their
business, or who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal
property or deposit is a pawnbroker.
   “PRECIOUS METAL DEALER.” Any business that engages in the purchase of non-
ferrous metals for the purposes of reselling and/or recycling metal for its
physical qualities. Businesses are also identified as precious metal dealers if
that business advertises that they purchase gold or silver for cash. A precious
metal dealer does not include a recycler who, as part of their business,
purchases motor vehicles for scrap metal.
   “LEADSONLINE.” An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers to report their transactions to law
enforcement with information required by Kentucky Revised Statute and this
chapter.
   “LARCENY OFFENDER LIST.” A list maintained by law enforcement containing the
names and identifying information of individuals known to have been convicted
of an offense involving the sale of stolen property within the prior three
years.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.02 PAWNBROKER/PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS LICENSE.
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this chapter, all
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers located within the city shall be
required to secure a pawnbroker/precious metal dealer's license by making
application to the City Clerk. Such application shall be on standard forms
furnished by the clerk and shall contain all information determined by the City
Council to be necessary for an evaluation of the applicant's eligibility to be
licensed hereunder. No license shall be issued to or held by any person who has
been convicted of a felony offense related to larceny, theft or the receiving
of stolen property, nor shall a license be issued to a corporation or
partnership whose chief officers or members are persons who have been convicted
of a felony offense related to larceny, theft or the receiving of stolen
property.
   (B)   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the
business of a pawnbroker shall annually enter into a bond to the city, with
good and sufficient surety to be approved by the City Council, in the penal sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). This bond shall be conditioned upon that
he will observe the provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in
force in the city not inconsistent with this chapter.
   (C)   The city shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of a completed
application form, make a complete review of the accuracy of the information
contained therein, including a criminal records check on any individuals named
therein. If the application is to be denied, the City Clerk shall provide the
applicant with written notification, including a statement of the reason(s) for
denial. An aggrieved applicant shall, within thirty (30) days of such action,
have a right to request a hearing before the City Council of the city to
contest the denial.
   (D)   Licenses issued under this section shall be for the conduct of
business at a specific location within the city and shall not be valid for the
conduct of the regulated business in any other location and shall be effective
for a period of one (1) year. Licenses issued under this section shall not be
transferable. License holder shall be required to post their license of a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place in the place of business.
   (E)   A fee of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be paid by the applicant for
the initial application made for a pawnbroker/precious metal dealer's license,
and a fee of fifty dollars ($50) shall be paid for each annual renewal
application.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.03 RESTRICTIONS ON RECEIPT OF ARTICLES.
   (A)   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
   (B)   No pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall accept an item for pawn,
loan or sale which came from the manufacturer with an attached serial number if
said number is missing, obscured or altered in such a manner as to be
illegible. Neither shall they accept an item for pawn, loan or sale which
appears to have had any identifying numbers, names, symbols or engravings
removed, obscured or altered in such a manner as to be illegible.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.04 REGISTER OF LOANS AND PURCHASES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall keep a register of all
loans and purchases of all articles effected or made by him.
   (B)   The register shall show the dates of all loans or purchases, and the
names of all persons who have left any property on deposit as collateral
security, or as a delivery or sale.
   (C)   Opposite the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full
description of all property purchased or received on deposit as collateral
security, the time when the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the
amount loaned and the interest charged. Said description shall contain any
identifying numbers, names or symbols found on the item, including but not
limited to: serial numbers, model numbers, owner applied numbers or engravings.
   (D)   Each entry must contain a legible copy of a state issued photo
identification of the individual who presented the item. If the individual
cannot present a state issued identification, the license holder shall take a
photograph of the individual with the item they present and shall have the
individual place their thumbprint in an identifiable manner upon the register.
   (E)   The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his official duty.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.05 RECEIPT AND SALES OF PAWNED ARTICLES.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall give a plain written
or printed ticket for the loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a
plain written or printed receipt of the articles that have been purchased, or
upon which money is loaned, having on each a copy of the entries required by
KRS 226.040 to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of sixty
(60) days from the maturity of the loan, provided that, not less than ten (10)
days before making the sale, the pawnbroker shall have given notice to the
person by whom the article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office
address of such person as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such
person that, unless he redeems the article within ten (10) days from the date
of mailing said notice, the article will be sold.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.06 MAXIMUM INTEREST; SERVICE CHARGES.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in KRS 226.010, may, in loaning money on deposit
of personal property, charge, contract for or receive interest at a rate not
exceeding two percent (2%) per month on the unpaid principal balance of the
loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed
one-fifth (1/5) of the value of the loan per month, for investigating the
title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan, making daily
reports to local law enforcement officers and for other expenses, losses and
incidental costs associated with servicing such loans. It is further provided
that such fee when made and collected shall not be deemed interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.07 RECEIPT FOR PAYMENTS.
   Every pawnbroker or precious metal dealer, upon receiving any payment of
money from a borrower, shall give to such person a plain and complete receipt
for such payment, specifying separately the amount applied to principal and the
amount applied to interest. In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased
personal property under an agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the
pawnbroker shall, on receiving any payment of money from the person from whom
the property was purchased, give such person a receipt stating the original
purchase price, the stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.08 DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker or precious metal dealer in the city shall by 11 a.m.
each day, make available to the chief of police of the city, the chief law
enforcement officer of the county, or to the Department of Kentucky State
Police, a true and correct written report of all goods received by him or her,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the twenty-four (24) hours preceding each
report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city, or the Department of Kentucky State
Police shall furnish blanks for the reports required by subsection (A) of this
section.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.09 RESTRICTIONS ON RESELL OF ITEMS PURCHASED.
   (A)   Pawnbrokers shall place a fourteen (14) day hold on items purchased
without a pawn agreement before reselling such property.
   (B)   Precious metal dealers shall place a fourteen (14) day hold on items
purchased, in their original form upon entering a precious metal dealer, before
items may be resold, damaged, or recycled.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.10 PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS.
   Pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers are prohibited from engaging in any
transaction for a period of three (3) years with a person whose name is
contained on the Larceny Offender List. Law enforcement shall supply
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers with a copy of the list on a monthly
basis.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.11 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Reporting to a web-based central reporting system identified as Leadsonline
shall be the primary method of reporting transactions for pawnbrokers and
precious metal dealers and will suffice for reporting directly to the
appropriate law enforcement agency as set forth in §
112.08. In the event an unintended circumstance prevents reporting through the
web-based system, pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers shall revert to
reporting in accordance with §
112.08.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A first conviction is punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00) and/or up to ninety (90) days in jail.
   (B)   A second or subsequent conviction is punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or up to one (1) year in jail.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties listed above, conviction of a violation
of this chapter by any license holder, its servants, agents (both apparent and
actual) or employees may result in revocation of the pawnbroker/precious metal
dealer license granted pursuant to this chapter and a prohibition against the
conduct of similar business on the licensed premises; or by the licensed
individual or business, or any partners or members thereof, for a period not to
exceed five (5) years.
(Am. Ord. 7-17-02, passed 7-10-17)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
113.06   Purpose of fees
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a fiscal year basis.
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be six percent (6%) of the first year's premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such
policies.
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be six percent (6%)
of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of
the issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of
the city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to
transact, less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee
or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for
insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees,
or death caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act
and shall not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance
provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2)
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not
paid on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6). There is a minimum license fee due from each company
transacting business within the city of ten dollars ($10.00) for each calendar
quarter. Any refund claims made by any company submitting payments hereunder to
the city shall be made no later than two (2) years from the date such payment
is made to the city.
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31 of each year, furnish the city with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
§ 113.06 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   All insurance license fees collected by the city as a result of this chapter
shall be expended by the city for any purpose through the General Fund,
including the purchase of fire fighting equipment for the city, and the related
uses of the Flemingburg Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and findings
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Adult entertainment establishments
   
114.04   Licenses
   
114.05   Employee license
   
114.06   Registration, photographing and fingerprinting of employees
   
114.07   Visibility
   
114.08   Restrictions and conditions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult
entertainment establishments and related activities to promote the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious
location and concentration of adult entertainment establishments within the
city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult entertainment establishments on the community presented in hearings
and in reports made available to the City Council and on findings incorporated
in the cases of City of Erie v. Pap's A.M. 529, U.S. 277 (2000); Barnes v. Glen
Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); City of Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc.,
475 U.S. 41 (1986); Arcara v. Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697, (1986);
Iacobucci v. City of Newport, Ky., 479 U.S. 92 (1986); Young v. American Mini
Theaters, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); United
States v. O'Brien, 391 U.S. 367, as well as studies conducted in other cities
including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove,
California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas;
Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont,
Texas; and findings reported in the Final Report of the Attorney General's
Commission on Pornography (1986), the Report of the Attorney General's Working
Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of
Minnesota), the City Council finds that:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the
operators of the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to
make owners of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur
on their premises.
      (2)   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex
related crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where adult
entertainment establishments are located. See, e.g., Studies of the cities of
Phoenix, Arizona; Indianapolis, Indiana; and Austin, Texas.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at adult entertainment establishments, especially those which provide private
or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex
shows. See, e.g., California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109, 111 (1972); See also Final
Report of the Attorney General's Commission on Pornography (1986) at 377.
      (4)   Offering and providing such booths and/or cubicles encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions. See, e.g., Final Report of the
Attorney General's Commission on Pornography (1986) at 376-77.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
adult entertainment establishments for the purpose of engaging in sex within
the premises of such adult entertainment establishments. See, e.g., Arcara v.
Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697, 698 (1986); see also Final Report of the
Attorney General's Commission on Pornography (1986) at 376-77.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in adult entertainment establishments including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections. See, e.g., Study of Fort Meyers, Florida.
      (7)   Sanitary conditions in some adult entertainment establishments are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities. See, e.g., Final Report of the Attorney
General's Commission on Pornography (1986) at 377.
      (8)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of adult entertainment
establishments where persons view "adult" oriented films. See, e.g., Final
Report of the Attorney General's Commission on Pornography (1986) at 377.
      (9)   Nude dancing in adult entertainment establishments encourages
prostitution, increases sexual assaults, and attracts other criminal activity.
See, e.g., Barnes v. Glen Theater, 501 U.S. 560, 583 (1991).
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADULT DANCING." Means and includes but is not limited to any dancing which
exposes to view by patrons or spectators on the premises at any time "Specified
Anatomical Areas" and/or consist of "Specified Sexual Activities", as defined
herein.
   "ADULT ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYEE." Any individual working or performing service
in any "Adult Entertainment Establishment", including any independent
contractor who provides services on behalf of any "Adult Entertainment
Establishment" to or for the patrons of such business, but this does not
include janitors, cooks, accountants, or other employees who do not have direct
contact with patrons. "ADULT ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYEES" include, but are not
limited to dancers, bouncers, doormen, bartenders, and waiters working on the
premises of "Adult Entertainment Establishments".
   "ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT." A motion picture theater, massage
parlor or establishment, book store, escort service, or any other business
establishment whose principal use or regular business use, is to offer "Adult
Oriented Entertainment" or matter as characterized by an emphasis on "Specified
Sexual Activities" and/or exposure of "Specified Anatomical Areas".
   "ADULT ORIENTED ENTERTAINMENT." Any exhibition, live performance, display or
dance of any type which has a significant or substantial portion of such
performance any "Specified Sexual Activities" as defined herein, or the
exhibition of any "Specified Anatomical Area".
   "ENTERTAINMENT AREA." An area in an "Adult Entertainment Establishment"
consisting of a platform or other structure raised not less than eighteen
inches above the immediately surrounding main floor area and encompassing an
area of at least one hundred (100) square feet.
   "PERSON." An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
independent contractor, corporation (domestic or foreign), trust, estate,
assignee, receiver or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   "SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS." Shall mean and include, but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic
region; the cleavage of the human buttock; any portion of the human female
breast below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest
point. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breasts, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
      (2)   The human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   "SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES." Shall mean and include, but not be limited
to, bestiality, erotic or sexual stimulation with objects or mechanical
devices, human genitalia in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence, fondling or touching of human genitalia, pubic region, buttock,
anus or female breast, acts of human analingus, cunnilingus, fellatio,
flagellation, masturbation, sadism, sadomasochism, sexual intercourse, or
sodomy, any excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth above with any person on the premises.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
§ 114.03 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   General Requirements. In addition to the licensing and other general
requirements contained in this ordinance relating to adult entertainment
establishments, each adult entertainment establishment shall comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)    Prohibited activities. No person shall display or expose specified
anatomical areas and are prohibited from simulating specified sexual activity
individually or with any patron, spectator, employee or other person on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   Entertainment area. No person in an adult entertainment establishment
shall engage in any form of entertainment or dancing except while said person
is positioned in or occupying an entertainment areas, as defined above in §
114.02, and while the person so dancing, performing, displaying or exhibiting
is positioned not less than six (6) feet from any patron or spectator.
   (C)   Entertainment area exclusion. No spectator, patron, or persons other
than a licensed adult entertainment employee shall be present in an
entertainment area, as defined above in §
114.02, during the course of any adult oriented entertainment, dancing, or
performing.
   (D)   Physical contact prohibition. While on the premises of an adult
entertainment establishment, no adult entertainment employee shall be permitted
to have any physical contact with any other adult entertainment employee, other
employee, patron or spectator while that adult entertainment employee is
entertaining, dancing or performing and all such performances shall occur only
in an entertainment area. An adult entertainment employee shall not touch the
breast, buttocks or genitals of any patron, spectator, or other adult
entertainment employee and no patron or spectator shall touch the breast,
buttocks, or genitals of any adult entertainment employee or other patron or
spectator while on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment.
Further no person on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment shall
be permitted to use or be present in areas partitioned or screened from public
view that are designed to be occupied, together or alone, by any person or
persons on the premises of such establishment for the display of or exhibition
of specified anatomical areas.
   (E)   Age restriction. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be
permitted in an adult entertainment establishment.
   (F)   Business hours. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for
business between the inclusive hours of 1:00 a.m to 1:00 p.m. of any day.
   (G)   Licensed adult entertainment employees. No owner or operator of an
adult entertainment establishment shall permit an unlicensed adult
entertainment employee to work or perform services in its adult entertainment
establishment.
Case reference:
   An ordinance regulating nude dancing in adult entertainment establishments
is a valid exercise of the city's police power to control sex crimes, social
disease, and general depreciation of the neighborhood, and is not a suppression
of free speech, Restaurant Ventures, LLC v. Lexington-Fayette Urban, Ky. App.
Case Nos. 199CA-000834-MR & 1999-CA-001093-MR (1/5/01)
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.04 LICENSES.
   (A)   General requirements. No person shall own an adult entertainment
establishment without an adult entertainment establishment license. No person
shall operate an unlicensed adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   Application process. The owner of an adult entertainment establishment
shall apply for a license with the Codes Enforcement Officer. The applicant
shall complete an application on the form prescribed by the city and shall
submit the following information:
      (1)   The name and business address of the establishment, including any
assumed or fictitious names under which the establishment is or will be
operated.
      (2)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, social security and tax identification number of the owner,
and the social security number of every officer, partner, director, or person
performing a similar function to an officer, partner or director and the names
and addresses of any individual who owns ten percent (10%) or more of the adult
entertainment establishment.
      (3)   In the event the owner of the adult entertainment establishment is
not the owner of record of the real property on which the establishment is
located or to be located, the application shall include a notarized statement
from the owner of record of the real property acknowledging that an adult
entertainment establishment is located or to be located on the real property
upon the issuance of the license. The applicant also shall furnish the name and
address of the owner of record of the real property and a copy of the lease or
rental agreement or memorandum thereof.
      (4)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number, and photograph of each
person engaged in the day to day management of the licensed premises. All
persons who at any time shall be responsible for attending the entrance of the
establishment for the purpose compliance with this chapter shall be included in
this section.
      (5)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number, and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to be responsible for keeping the
applicant, if licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions,
requirements, and conditions set forth in this chapter together with the
written statement of the individual stating that he has received a copy of this
chapter and the he or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to
comply therewith.
      (6)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number, and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to be responsible for keeping current
the information required hereunder at all times together with a written
statement that he has received a copy of this chapter and that he or she
willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply with the requirements
herein pertaining to the disclosure of information.
      (7)   The nature of the activity or activities to be conducted at such
location.
      (8)   A criminal record report for the applicants, owners, officers,
directors, partners, employees or other persons whose names are required
pursuant to this section together with a list of all criminal convictions of
such persons within the last five years for the offenses listed in division (E)
of this section. Any person who is on parole shall submit with the application
the terms of said parole.
      (9)   The name and mailing address of the owner to whom notice will be
given in case of violations or other matters affecting the license hereunder.
      (10)   Applicant must submit to fingerprinting by the City of
Flemingsburg Police Department.
      (11)   Applicant's premises must meet all established zoning, fire,
building, and/or plumbing codes and shall not provide direct interior access to
residential living quarters.
      (12)   Applicant shall file a true and accurate floor plan showing all
entrances, exits, patron seating areas, entertainment areas, stairways, and all
rooms in the building and their intended uses.
   (C)   Supplemental information. The information required by division (B) of
this section shall be at all times current even after the granting of an adult
entertainment license. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or other
person designated in the licensee's application to notify the Codes Enforcement
Officer in writing, no later than 48 hours after the effective date of any
change in any information contained in the application. Failure to timely
provide notice of such change shall result in immediate revocation of the adult
entertainment establishment license.
   (D)   Review process. The Codes Enforcement Officer or his or her designee
shall inspect the premises within fifteen (15) days after the application has
been submitted. The Codes Enforcement Office shall issue a license if all
restrictions, requirements, conditions, and all applicable requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws have been met. The Codes Enforcement Officer
shall grant or deny a license application within twenty (20) days of the filing
of such application.
   (E)   Prohibitions. No adult entertainment establishment license shall be
issued if the applicant or any operator, officer, director, partner or
shareholder thereof:
      (1)   Is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any of the following offenses within the
preceding five (5) years:
         (a)   Gambling, conspiracy to promote gambling, or possession of
gambling records or gambling devices;
         (b)   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting prostitution,
solicitation for the purpose of prostitution, or loitering for the purpose of
prostitution;
         (c)   The sale, transfer, possession or use of any controlled
substance;
         (d)   Sexual offenses including rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual
misconduct, or indecent exposure;
         (e)   Distribution of obscene material to a minor, use of a minor to
produce, promote, or distribute obscene material, advertising obscene
materials, promoting the sale of obscenity;
         (f)   Unlawful transaction with a minor (as defined in KRS Chapter 530
or other similar laws), use of a minor in a sexual performance, or promoting a
sexual performance by a minor; or
         (g)   Murder, manslaughter, or felony assault (as defined in KRS
Chapters 507 or 508 or similar law);
      (3)   Has failed in the operation of an adult entertainment establishment
to comply with any health, zoning, fire, or building code enacted or adopted by
the city and has failed to correct such violation after notice from the city or
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction.
      (4)   Owes any delinquent fees or taxes of any kind to the city.
   (F)   Notice. If the Codes Enforcement Officer's inspection reveals a
failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter, the Codes Enforcement
Officer shall notify the applicant in writing of that fact, stating what
failures have been discovered, allowing a reasonable time to correct such
defects and informing the applicant of the procedure for appealing such notice
findings and decision.
   (G)   No transfer of license. The adult entertainment establishment license
issued under this section does not authorize the operation of an adult
entertainment establishment at any place other than the address designated in
the application, and such license is not transferable. A transfer shall be
deemed to occur when the business is sold, leased, or subleased, when
securities which constitute a controlling interest in the business are sold or
otherwise exchanged, or when a trust, gift, or other similar legal device is
established to transfer ownership or control of the business, except for a
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the natural
person owning or controlling the business.
   (H)   Access to licensed premises. Application for or the granting of a
license for an adult entertainment establishment shall be deemed to permit
periodic inspections by law enforcement officers, or other persons designated
or authorized by the Codes Enforcement Officer, of all areas of any
establishment requiring a license under this chapter for the purpose of
verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for an applicant, licensee, owner or operator of an adult
entertainment establishment to refuse to permit a law enforcement officer,
Codes Enforcement Officer, or other authorized person to inspect the premises
at any time during normal business hours of the establishment.
   (I)   License fee. Upon submission of an initial license application, the
applicant for an adult entertainment license shall pay to the city a non-
refundable fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), to help defray costs of
background checks. Each adult entertainment establishment shall pay to the
city, in addition to the application fee, an annual license fee of fifteen
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), which fee is due and payable upon the issuance of
a license and on or before the first day of January of each year thereafter.
When the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at the rate of
$150.00 per month for the remaining months of the current license year, which
prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license. No license fee
shall be refunded upon cessation of business of upon suspension or revocation
of an adult entertainment license.
   (J)   Expiration. Each license shall expire on December 31 of each calendar
year, unless earlier suspended or revoked. Application for a new license should
be made at least thirty days prior each expiration date, to allow the Codes
Enforcement Officer time to recheck that all requirements for Adult
Entertainment Establishments continue to be met by the applicant.
   (K)   Suspension. The Codes Enforcement Officer may suspend an adult
entertainment establishment license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
if the Codes Enforcement Officer determines that the applicant, owner, operator
or an employee thereof has violated any provisions of this chapter, has been on
the adult entertainment establishment premises while intoxicated or in a
disorderly condition (consistent with the definition of disorderly conduct
contained in KRS Chapter 525), has refused to allow an inspection of the
licensed premises, or has knowingly permitted any violation of city or state
law to occur on the premises.
   (L)   Revocation. The Codes Enforcement Officer shall revoke an adult
entertainment license if he or she determines that:
      (1)   Cause for suspension under division (H) of this section occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve (12) months;
      (2)   An applicant knowingly gave false or misleading information in the
initial license or any subsequent license application;
      (3)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substance on the premises;
      (4)   An applicant, owner, operator, or employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution or solicitation for prostitution on the premises;
      (5)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly operated an
adult entertainment establishment during a period of time when the
establishment's license was suspended; or
      (6)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed a
violation specified in division (E) of this section to occur on the premises.
   (M)   Hearing for denial, suspension or revocation; appeal. If the Codes
Enforcement Officer determines that grounds exist to deny, suspend or revoke an
adult entertainment establishment license, he or she shall notify the applicant
or licensee in writing of his or her intent to deny, suspend or revoke,
including the grounds therefor. The notice shall be sent to the applicant or
licensee by certified return receipt mail at the address specified in the
application. Within five (5) business days of receipt of such notice, the
applicant or licensee may provide to the Codes Enforcement Officer, in writing,
a response which shall include a statement of reasons why the license should
not be denied, suspended or revoked, and may request a hearing. If a timely
response is not received by the Codes Enforcement Officer, the notice shall be
a final administrative act of denial, suspension or revocation of the license.
If a timely response is received by the Codes Enforcement Officer, he or she
shall within ten (10) business days of his or her receipt of the response
either withdraw the written notice of intent to deny, suspend or revoke by
giving notice of such withdrawal to the applicant or licensee, or schedule a
hearing before the Flemingsburg Codes Enforcement Board, and shall give notice
of such hearing to that applicant or licensee. The hearing shall be informal in
nature and shall be conducted within ten (10) business days of the Codes
Enforcement Officer's timely receipt of the applicant's or licensee's response.
The Board shall issue an oral decision at conclusion of the hearing and shall
render a written decision within five business days after the completion of the
hearing and shall serve the applicant or licensee with a copy of the decision
by certified return receipt mail. The applicant or licensee may appeal such
decision of the Board to the Fleming Circuit Court, provided said appeal is
filed not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the written decision of
the Board; otherwise the decision of the Board shall be final. If an applicant
or licensee pursues a judicial appeal of a final decision of Board, then that
licensee or applicant may continue to operate or work pending final
adjudication.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
§ 114.05 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   General requirements. Any person who is or intends to be employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, working proprietor or
independent contractor, in an adult entertainment establishment as an adult
entertainment employee, shall obtain an adult entertainment employee license.
The person seeking to become an adult entertainment employee shall apply for a
license with the Codes Enforcement Officer. Such application shall be in
writing, shall be on a form prescribed by the city, and the following
information shall be provided:
      (1)   The name, including any other name or alias presently or formerly
used by the applicant (e.g. "stage name"); present residence and business
address; present residence and business telephone number; date and place of
birth; social security number; dated, issuing state and number of drivers'
license; height, weight, hair and eye color; a description of any
distinguishing marks or tattoos; and a recent photograph of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the adult entertainment establishment where
the applicant intends to work, together with a written statement that he/she
has received a copy of this chapter and that he/she will fully comply
therewith.
      (3)   A statement detailing the applicant's work history for the five (5)
year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant previously operated or was employed in an adult
oriented entertainment business or activity or whether other similar license
has been denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, the applicant shall list the name of the denying,
issuing, or revoking jurisdiction, and state in full the reason for the denial,
revocation, or suspension.
      (4)   A criminal record report for the applicant together with a
statement whether within the last five (5) years the applicant has been
convicted of any criminal activity described in §
114.04(E)(2) of this chapter, and if so, the specific criminal activity
involved and the date, place and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Issuance process. The Codes Enforcement Office shall issue an adult
entertainment employee license to an applicant if all provisions of this
chapter and other applicable laws have been met. The Codes Enforcement Office
shall conduct an investigation to determine whether the applicant has met all
requirements for issuance of a license. The Codes Enforcement Office shall
grant or deny a license application within ten days of the filing of such
application. Procedures under §
114.04 for review of applications for adult entertainment establishment
licenses, and for denial, suspension, and revocation of such licenses, and for
appeal from such sanctions, shall apply also to licensing of adult
entertainment employees and to licensing sanctions and appeal therefrom.
   (C)   License prohibitions. No adult entertainment employee license shall be
issued if the applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age or has been
convicted of any of the offenses listed in §
114.04(E)(2) of this section within the five (5) years preceding the date of
the application.
   (D)   License fees. Concurrent with the submission of the initial license
application, the applicant for an adult entertainment employee license shall
pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to help
defray the costs of background check. Each adult entertainment employee shall
pay to the city, in addition to the application fee, an annual employee license
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which fee is due and payable upon the
issuance of a license and on or before January 1 of each year thereafter. When
the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at the rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) per month for the remaining months of the current license
year, which prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license. No
license fee shall be refunded.
   (E)   License renewal. Application for January 1 license renewals shall be
made at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration of the current license for
each year, to allow the Codes Enforcement Officer time to recheck that all
requirements for Adult Entertainment Establishment Employees continue to be met
by the applicant.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.06 REGISTRATION, PHOTOGRAPHING AND FINGERPRINTING OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   General requirements. All persons holding an adult entertainment
establishment license and all adult entertainment employees in any adult
entertainment establishment or place of business, except as hereinafter
provided, shall register in a book of registration to be kept by the
Flemingsburg Police Department and shall be registered, fingerprinted, and
photographed by the Flemingsburg Police Department prior to the date of
commencing business operations or employment with such establishment. No person
shall fail to register or be fingerprinted and photographed prior to commencing
such employment.
   (B)   Employer responsibility. No employer shall allow any person to be
employed unless the employee shall have registered and shall have been
fingerprinted and photographed as prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 11-6-01, passed 11-13-06)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.07 VISIBILITY.
   (A)   Unobstructed view of interior. Each licensed adult entertainment
establishment shall at all times provide a clear view of the entire area open
to the public from the front entrance to the entertainment area, whether at
street level or otherwise. No partition, box, stall, screen, curtain, or other
devise shall be installed or placed so as to obstruct the view of persons in
any entertainment area; however, partitions, subdivisions, or panels that are
not higher than forty-eight (48) inches from the floor shall not be construed
as obstructing a view of persons from the front entrance of the licensed
premises.
   (B)   Darkening interior. The darkening of any portion of the licensed
premises open to the public in any manner as to prevent any person standing at
the front entrance from observing the conduct of patrons therein is prohibited.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.08 RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Location. The public entrance to each licensed adult entertainment
establishment shall not be located nearer than nine hundred fifty (950) feet
from any church, synagogue or other permanent place of worship, licensed day
care center, public or private elementary, middle or secondary school,
institution of higher learning, or business college, or any park, mall, or
park-like area of open space under the control of a governmental agency, or any
area zoned residential. Such distance shall be measured along a straight line
from the nearest property line of the real estate on which that building or
public park-like area is located, to the entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment.
   (B)   Advertising and signage. Any adult entertainment establishment license
holder shall be required to identify such business as "adult" in any
advertisement. No lettering, words, or representation of matter relating to
sexual activities as defined in this chapter shall be placed upon any
advertisement. Adult entertainment activities or photographs of the same shall
not be displayed within any licensed premises in such a manner as to be open to
view from outside the licensed premises. Each application for an adult
entertainment establishment license shall be accompanied by a photograph or
drawing of any signs to be displayed on the exterior of the establishment with
an indication as to the dimensions of the same. Exterior signage shall not
exceed one (1) outside, flush to the wall, facial style sign, not to exceed in
size ten (10) feet in length (horizontal to ground) and three (3) feet in width
(vertical to the ground), with no flashing lights and with no lettering,
wording, or pictorial or representational matter which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depictions of sexual activities as defined
hereinabove. In addition, signage shall also be posted in conspicuous outside
locations indicating that persons must be of eighteen (18) years of age or
older to enter.
   (C)   No alcoholic beverages on premises. There shall be no alcoholic
beverages of any kind present, stored or consumed on the premises of any adult
entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §
114.03 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), each violation to be counted as a separate act.
   (B)   Violation of §
114.04 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), each violation to be counted as a separate act.
   (C)   Violation of §
114.05 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), each violation to be counted as a separate act.
   (D)   Violation of §
114.06 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), each
violation to be counted as a separate act.
   (E)   Violation of §
114.07 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), each
violation to be counted as a separate act.
   (F)   Violation of §
114.08 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), each violation to be counted as a separate act.
(Ord. 11-06-1, passed 11-13-06)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Title
   
115.002   Purpose
   
115.003   Definitions
   
115.004   Scope
   
115.005   Adoptions
License Requirements
   
115.015   City licenses
   
115.016   City licenses schedule
   
115.017   Certain special licenses defined
   
115.018   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
115.019   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
115.020   Refund of fees
   
115.021   Regulatory license fee
   
115.022   Disposition of fees
Office of the Local Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.035   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.036   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
115.045   Advertisement
   
115.046   Application fee
   
115.047   Form of application
   
115.048   Other conditions
   
115.049   Form of license
   
115.050   Change of information
   
115.051   Renewal of license
   
115.052   Lost or destroyed license
   
115.053   Revocation or suspension
   
115.054   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license
   
115.055   Transfer or assignment
   
115.056   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
115.057   Review of license; books, records, audio and visual recordings, and
reports
   
115.058   Dormancy
Hours for Sale and Delivery
   
115.070   Hours for sale and delivery
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
115.080   Gambling
   
115.081   Radio receiving apparatus
   
115.082   Security
   
115.083   Prizes prohibited
   
115.084   Drunkenness
   
115.085   Underage sales
   
115.086   Sign requirements
   
115.087   License to be displayed
   
115.088   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail
   
115.089   Employment restrictions
   
115.090   Happy hour restrictions
   
115.091   Lavatory facilities required
   
115.092   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
115.093   Drive-through outlets prohibited
   
115.094   Cause for revocation
   
115.095   Retail premises not to be disorderly
Minors
   
115.105   Possession by minors prohibited
Consumption on Premises Prohibited
   
115.115   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited
   
115.116   Exceptions
   
115.117   Habitual congregating
   
115.118   Definitions
Malt Beverage Keg Registration
   
115.130   Definitions
   
115.131   Malt beverage keg identification tag
   
115.132   Keg registration
   
115.133   Unlawful sales
Mandatory Responsible Beverage Service Training
   
115.145   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Signs and Advertising
   
115.155   Signs and advertising
Patio and Outdoor Sales
   
115.165   Patio and outdoor sales regulations
   
115.166   Exception to screening requirement
   
115.167   Conditions for sidewalk café permit
   
155.168   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafes
 
   
115.999   Enforcement and penalties
§ 115.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance” of
the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky (city).
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization of KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control law (KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244) of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.004 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.005 ADOPTION.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky (KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244) and all amendments and supplements
thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise
lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 115.015 CITY LICENSES.
   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall be as set out in
the following schedule. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be amended to
authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each city license shall be the
maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.016 CITY LICENSES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Only those licenses set out in this section shall be issued. The
license fees are subject to the provisions of divisions (P), (Q), and (R) of
this section and shall not exceed the amounts specified in divisions (B) to (O)
of this section.
   (B)   Distilled spirit licenses.
      (1)   Distiller’s license, per annum...................   .$500.00
      (2)   Rectifier’s license.
         (a)   Class A, per annum..........................   $3,000.00
         (b)   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum..........   $960.00
      (3)   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license,
          per annum.....................................   $3,000.00
      (4)   Quota retail package license, per annum.........   $1,000.00
   (C)   Quota retail drink license per annum................   $1,000.00
   (D)   Special temporary license, per event..................   $166.66
   (E)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages), per annum.....   $2,000.00
   (F)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine
and malt beverages), per annum......   $1,000.00
   (G)   Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages), per annum.......   $300.00
   (H)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license,       
per event...........................................   $100.00
   (I)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum........   $300.00
   (J)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum......   $2,000.00
   (K)   Caterer's license, per annum..........................   $800.00
   (L)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per
annum.................................................   $1,000.00
   (M)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
      (1)   Brewer’s license, per annum........................   $500.00
      (2)   Microbrewery license, per annum...................   $500.00
      (3)   Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum....   $400.00
      (4)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum          
....................................................   $200.00
      (5)   Nonquota type 4 (NQ4) retail malt beverage drink license, per annum
......................................   $200.00
   (N)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine,       
and malt beverages, per annum...........................   $1,200.00
   (O)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine,       
and malt beverages), per annum....................   $1,200.00
   (P)   Authorized public consumption license, per annum........   $250.00
   (Q)   Qualified historic site license, per annum..........   $1,030.00
   (R)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by more
than five percent (5%) above the January 1, 2013, fee for the current license
or the former license type listed beside it during any five- (5-) year period.
The fees for the licenses described in this division are still subject to the
maximum amounts listed for those licenses in divisions (B) to (O) of this
section:
      (1)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor licenses;
      (2)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license: convention center or
convention hotel complex license;
      (3)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink licenses;
      (4)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt beverage
license;
      (5)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt
beverage license;
      (6)   Limited restaurant; and
      (7)   Limited golf course license.
   (S)   The fee for each of the first five (5) supplemental bar licenses shall
be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five (5) to the same licensee
at the same premises.
   (T)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a Nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of fifty dollars
($50). The holder of a Nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a
nonquota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of fifty dollars ($50).
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.017 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES DEFINED.
   (A)   Special temporary licenses. A special temporary license may be issued
only as set out in KRS 243.260. Unless inconsistent with KRS 243.260 a special
temporary license shall have the same privileges and restrictions of a quota
retail drink license and an NQ4 retail malt beverage licensee at the designated
premises not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   (B)   A nonprofit organization holding an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink
license may be issued a special temporary license to sell distilled spirits and
wine by the drink on the licensed premises for a specified and limited time,
not to exceed ten (10) days. The temporary license may be issued in conjunction
with any public or private event, including but not limited to weddings,
receptions, reunions, or similar occasions.
   (C)   Sunday sales. Special license required for Sunday sales. No licensee
shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:01 a.m. on
Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday unless the licensee shall have obtained a
special license for Sunday sales.
   (D)   Caterer’s license. The caterer’s license may be issued as a primary
license to a caterer in any wet territory or in any moist territory under KRS
242.1244 for the premises that serves as the caterer’s commissary and
designated banquet hall. No primary caterer's license shall authorize alcoholic
beverage sales at a premises that operates as a restaurant. The alcoholic
beverage stock of the caterer shall be kept under lock and key at the licensed
premises during the time that the alcoholic beverages are not being used in
conjunction with a catered function.
   (E)   Private club. “PRIVATE CLUB” means a nonprofit social, fraternal,
military, or political organization, club, or nonprofit or for-profit entity
maintaining or operating a club room, club rooms, or premises from which the
general public is excluded;
      (1)   Membership qualifications shall be consistent with their national
organization, and a policy for courtesy membership or any temporary membership
privilege will not be tolerated. The existence of such a membership policy
shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Should membership qualifications be altered the club making such
changes shall furnish a copy of the proposed alteration withing ten (10) days
to the Local Administrator. Failure to furnish such change shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Private clubs licensed to sell alcoholic beverages will provide to
the Local Administrator a list of its officers and notify the Local
Administrator of any change thereto. Club officers for the licensing year shall
not have been convicted of any felony within the past five (5) years or two (2)
misdemeanors or offenses directly or indirectly attributable to the use of
intoxicating liquors within the past two (2) years.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.018 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   (A)   All city licenses, except special temporary licenses, shall be valid
for a period of no more than a year and shall begin and end on the dates
specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrative
Regulations for the city. When any person applies for a new license authorized
by KRS Chapter 241 to KRS Ch. 244 and this chapter he or she shall be charged,
if the license is issued, the full fee for the respective license if six (6)
months or more remain before the license is due to be renewed and one-half (1/
2) the fee if less than six (6) months remain before the license is due to be
renewed. No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who held
a license of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license
period and who was actually doing business under the license during the last
month of the preceding license period.
   (B)   The renewal by the Local Administrator of the certificate or permit of
any alcoholic beverage license shall not be construed to waive or condone any
violation that occurred prior to the renewal and shall not prevent subsequent
proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.019 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten (10) days after it
becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the license
fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten (10)
days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to
other penalties as provided in §
115.999(B).
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.020 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control,
then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license
fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said
business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the Local ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.021 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee upon the gross receipts of the sale of alcoholic beverages of each
establishment located in the city licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. As of
the time of adoption of this chapter, the regulatory license fee shall be five
percent (5%) of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages sold by the drink. In
the case of retail sales of package distilled spirits and wine, the regulatory
license fee shall be five percent (5%) of gross sales. The regulatory license
fee shall be five percent (5%) on gross retail sales of package malt beverages.
Thereafter, pursuant to KRS 243.075 the City Council shall adopt at the budget
adoption for each subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory
license fee as shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to
the city for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative
expense related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city
fail to address the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory
license fee shall remain at the level at which it was last fixed until such
time as the City Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the Local ABC
Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for the estimated cost of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the tax return approved for such use by
the City Council. The return and payment are due no later than by the end of
the month immediately following each calendar quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten (10) days of the
due date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or
revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is five percent (5%) of the tax for each ninety (90) days or
fraction thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the tax; provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty
be less than ten dollars ($10.00).
   (E)   Interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum will apply to any
late payments.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.022 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator shall transmit fees upon collection to the
city’s Finance Department to be deposited into the appropriate designated
account.
   (B)   Fees collected from the sales of alcoholic beverages shall be used in
the following manner:
      (1)   All administrative expenses, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Salaries of Local Administrator and administrative staff;
         (b)   Office equipment and supplies directly related to administration
and regulation of alcoholic beverage control laws;
         (c)   Office space, utilities, communication and technology expenses
for administration and regulation;
         (d)   Travel expenses incurred for policing, administration and
regulation of alcoholic beverages;
         (e)   Any additional costs directly related to the administration and
regulation of alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   All fees collected in excess of expenses included above shall be
dispersed as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent (50%) to the city;
         (b)   Fifty percent (50%) to the County Fiscal Court;
         (c)   Fees shall be used for policing expenses and any regulatory or
administrative expenses directly related to alcohol related incidents and
responses.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
OFFICE OF THE LOCAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 115.035 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the office of the
Local Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as the Local Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator (hereinafter referred to as Local ABC Administrator), unless the
Mayor shall appoint someone else to fill the position pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The Local ABC Administrator may from time to time appoint such
additional personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration
of this chapter, subject to budget constraints.
   (D)   The salary for the office of Local ABC Administrator, if any, together
with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the Local ABC Administrator,
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (E)   The functions of the Local ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (hereinafter referred to
as ABC Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no
amendment to these regulations proposed by the Local ABC Administrator may be
less stringent than the statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control, or
than regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the Local ABC Administrator
shall become effective until the City Council has first appropriately approved
it.
   (F)   No person shall be a Local ABC Administrator, an Investigator or an
employee of the city under the supervision of the Local ABC Administrator, who
would be disqualified to be a member of the ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (G)   The Local ABC Administrator shall have all authority as authorized
under KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244. The Local ABC Administrator, and the ABC
Administrator’s investigators, may inspect any premises where alcoholic
beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked, without first
obtaining a search warrant.
   (H)   Should the Local ABC Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds
to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC or other business
organization, has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to
require such person to appear in person at the city’s Police Department for the
purpose of fingerprinting.
   (I)   The Local ABC Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as
such, shall take the oath as prescribed in Section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.036 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the Local ABC Administrator may be taken to
the state ABC Board by filing with the Board within thirty (30) days a
certified copy of the orders of the Local ABC Administrator. The Board shall
hear matters at issue as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of
the Local ABC Administrator shall be governed by KRS Ch. 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the Local ABC Administrator shall have been
appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding
such appeal or protested application, the Local ABC Administrator, upon receipt
of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and take such
action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and
as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal
times shall have been exhausted. A “final order” of the ABC Board is the order
entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the Board’s order, in
which case the “final order” is the order entered by the Board upon direction
from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order of said reviewing
court.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE
§ 115.045 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Ch. 424.
   (A)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as
the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a corporation,
the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the principal officers
and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and address of the
corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location of the premises
for which the license is sought, and the type of license for which application
is made.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.046 APPLICATION FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid with
the filing of the application for a city license. If the license is granted,
the application fee shall be credited against the initial license fee.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.047 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the Local
ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the ABC Board and the city, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the ABC Board and the
city, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If city or county resident, indicate when residence was established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a
postal or express money order for the amount of the license fee, less the fifty
dollars ($50.00) application fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file with the application responses to any additional questions as may be posed
or prescribed by the Local ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted a
statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses and, in
order to determine the extent to which applications may further or impede the
objectives of those guidelines, the City Council may, by municipal order, adopt
a questionnaire to be submitted to applicants for licenses. Upon adoption of
the questionnaire, it shall become a part of the application process. The
initial questionnaire adopted by the City Council is a part of this chapter and
incorporated herein as Quota Package Application Questionnaire. The
questionnaire may be altered, expanded, supplemented or replaced by municipal
order of the City Council hereafter. In addition to the information contained
in the application and any city ordered questionnaire, the Local ABC
Administrator may require such other information as the Administrator may in
his or her discretion deem desirable, reasonable or appropriate to the
consideration of the application.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.048 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations required or
permitted by law:
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by the city’s Building Inspector,
County Health Department, State Fire Marshal and comply with the city’s zoning
regulations.
   (B)   The premises to be licensed must have a certificate of occupancy in
compliance with Section 111.2 of the most recent publication of the Kentucky
Building Codes.
   (C)   The certificate of occupancy must be displayed in a conspicuous place
on the premises.
   (D)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the Local
ABC Administrator; and
   (E)   No license to sell alcoholic beverage shall be granted or renewed to
any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due the city
at the time of issuing the license, nor shall any license be granted or renewed
to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon
which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city. Further, if a
licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the
city at any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic or
malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (F)   No person, whether an applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the Local
ABC Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any state ABC
administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This provision is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to clarify that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
section. This section shall not be interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements
in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order or
revocation or suspension, where the chapter and applicable statutes allow for
such payments in settlement.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.049 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the City
Council and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license;
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.050 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the Local ABC Administrator within ten (10) days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the Local ABC Administrator. The
Local ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word “CHANGE” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures ten
percent (10%) of the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than ten
percent (10%) of the total ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information will be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If city or county resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the Local ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten (10) days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.051 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of temporary licenses, each licensee
shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the Local
ABC Administrator no less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
exiting lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than twenty (20) days from the expiration date of the
license, setting forth these facts, and the Local ABC Administrator is hereby
authorized to extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a
reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of the Local ABC
Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from
the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said license fee shall
not be payable until application is made for the transfer of said license to a
new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the Local ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.052 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the Local ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of ten dollars ($10.00)
for the duplicate license.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.053 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the Local ABC Administrator
per KRS 243.490 if the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of
KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244, or administrative regulation of the ABC Board
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages or of the Department of Revenue relating to the taxation of
alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or shall violate
any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or
City Council, or this chapter now, heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating
to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or taxation of
intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in
existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch. 244 to be
created, when an agent, servant, or employee of the licensee committed the
violation, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted the
violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or her
instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause
which the Local ABC Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound
discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the Local
ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application or renewal
application for a license or supplemental license.
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants, or employees of:
         (a)   Two (2) violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Ch. 241 to
KRS. Ch 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages within two (2) consecutive years;
         (b)   Two (2) misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages within two (2) consecutive years; or
         (c)   Any felony.
      (4)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any part
of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any statutes,
ordinances, or Acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
related administrative regulations promulgated by the Department of Revenue.
      (5)   Revocation of any license or permit provided in KRS 243.060, KRS
243.070, KRS 243.600, and KRS 243.610, or granted under any Act of Congress
relative to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages.
      (6)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division shall not apply
to:
         (a)   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS Ch.
154A;
         (b)   The operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where
authorized by law;
         (c)   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Ch. 238; or
         (d)   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036.
      (7)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee’s agents, servants, or
employees for:
         (a)   The trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch. 218A, including synthetic
drugs;
         (b)   Knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Ch. 218A, including synthetic drugs; or
         (c)   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed premises.
      (8)   Failure to comply with the terms of a final order of the board.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.054 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer or of the Local ABC Administrator, the Local ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be prescribed by the City Council by municipal
order. Such order shall be maintained on file in the office of the Local ABC
Administrator and a copy furnished with any notice of proposed revocation or
suspension sent to a licensee. If the City Council shall fail to adopt such
municipal order, the procedures shall be those set out in the Kentucky
Administrative Procedure Act (KRS Ch. 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the Local ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three (3) days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the Local ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police at the request of the Local ABC Administrator shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the Local ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the Local ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the Local ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal
shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the Local ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once
suspend all operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a
final order of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on
appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this
license.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.055 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the Local ABC
Administrator and until a payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
made to the Local ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.056 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, KRS 243.490 and KRS 243.500, as well as
violation of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or
the administration thereof.
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   In the case of quota licenses, before approving an application, the
Local ABC Administrator is hereby directed to consider, in addition to the
factors set out in KRS 243.450, KRS 243.490 and KRS 243.500, and any other
factors the Administrator determines in his or her discretion to be reasonable
and pertinent to the license application, the following criteria:
      (1)   Ownership. The city places great value on business owners who are
invested in the community.
      (2)   Economic impact. The city desires businesses which make the most
positive impact on the community, in number of jobs, payroll, property
investment and revenues to the city.
      (3)   Site of business. The city is interested in serving all geographic
areas of the city. Therefore, the city does not wish to cluster all licensed
ABC outlets in one area.
      (4)   Aesthetics. The city is committed to protecting the character and
beauty of our community.
      (5)   Revitalization of downtown. The city wholeheartedly supports the
revitalization of downtown and the revitalization and reuse of existing
buildings.
      (6)   Capital. The city values businesses that demonstrate their ability
to financially support and sustain their viability.
      (7)   Public support of licensed business in the area. The city intends
that public sentiment and safety be considered in deciding upon the approval of
retail liquor sales licenses in any area of the city.
   (C)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the Local ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.057 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS, AUDIO AND VISUAL RECORDINGS, AND
REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identify each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books, audio and visual recordings,
and records to determine whether the licensee is in compliance with all parts
of this chapter. In the event the conditions of any license requirement are not
met during any particular quarter, the Local ABC Administrator shall have
discretion in determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the
licensee may be allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a
good faith effort is demonstrated by the licensee, the Local ABC Administrator
may apply an accounting period of at least one (1) year in determining whether
or not the food sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   (1)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon
the licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the Local ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the Local ABC Administrator in his or her review.
      (2)   For the purpose of assisting the Local ABC Administrator in
enforcement of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the Local ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC
Board required by statute shall be furnished to the Local ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.058 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after ninety (90) days. Such is the intent of this
section. Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her
business interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various
exceptions to the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
ninety (90) days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth
in division (c) below are proved to the satisfaction of the Local ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the Local ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the Local
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions division (C) hereof shall not apply to any licensee who
is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is issued
due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under power
of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or loss of
lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of ninety (90) days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to
the Local ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact that
the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the specific reasons
set forth herein, and the Local ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the
dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect during the license
period or until same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the
fact that no business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no
such license shall be considered valid unless business is conducted there under
within twelve (12) months from the date of notice to the Local ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the Local ABC Administrator deems appropriate in the exercise
of his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY
§ 115.070 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink
shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on
each day of the week, except Sunday.
   (B)   A licensee authorized to sell distilled spirits and wine or malt
beverage by the drink may sell between the hours of 1:00 p.m. on Sunday until
9:00 p.m. on Sunday if licensee has a special Sunday retail drink license.
   (C)   Retail package distilled spirits and wine sales and package malt
beverage sales shall be permitted from 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
each day of the week, except that such package sales shall not be permitted
during the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday, or between the hours of
9:00 p.m. on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (D)   A licensee may remain open from 12:00 a.m. (midnight) until 1:00 a.m.
on January 1 of each year. If New Year's Eve falls on a Saturday, the licensee
must have a special Sunday sales retail sales licenses to remain open until 1:
00 a.m. on Sunday January 1. If New Year's Eve falls on a Sunday, a licensee
authorized to sell distilled spirits and wine or malt beverage by the drink may
sell between the hours of 1:00 p.m. on Sunday until 1:00 a.m. on Monday if
licensee has a special Sunday retail drink license.
   (E)   A licensee may sell on all election days between the hours of 6:00
a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight).
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 115.080 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall
not be kept on such premises.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.081 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is intentionally
adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law enforcement
agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In addition to
other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the Chief of Police
or the Local ABC Administrator, or his or her designated investigator, shall
have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.082 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.083 PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells alcoholic
beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of
value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with
the sale of alcoholic beverages nor shall any licensee give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity for less than a full monetary consideration.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.084 DRUNKENNESS.
   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any person to
become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee sell
alcoholic beverages to any person who appears to a reasonable person to be
actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages. No licensee
shall permit any person who appears to a reasonable person to be apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, other
intoxicating substances, or any of these substances in combination, to the
degree that the person may endanger any person or property, or unreasonably
annoy persons in the vicinity to remain on the licensed premises. As used
herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence of
alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with specific
reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory alcohol
server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.085 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all IDs to ascertain
that every person attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages is at
least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.086 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at least
eight (8) inches by eleven (11) inches in thirty (30) point or larger type
which states as follows:
 
Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
 
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.087 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.895, the licensee, except holders of special
temporary licenses, before commencing any business for which a license has been
issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the room
or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting
the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post
the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where
traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the
licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (B)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least eight and one-half (8.5) inches by eleven (11) inches in
size, and with gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.088 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAIL.
   (A)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
   (B)   Retail, licensee must purchase alcoholic beverages from wholesaler or
distributor, or special agent or solicitor, who is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages to the particular purchaser.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.089 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with the licensed business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two (2) years;
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages within the last two
(2) years;
   (C)   Is under the age of twenty (20) years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute. However, at a premise licensed solely with a
non-quota retail malt beverage package license, a person that is at least
eighteen (18) years of age may be employed to sell packaged malt beverages so
long as said person is under the supervision of a person (20) years of age or
older.
   (D)   Within two (2) years prior to the date of his or her employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.090 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g., two-for-one, happy
hours) after the hour of 10:00 p.m. until closing.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.091 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail package licenses shall be required to provide indoor lavatory
facilities for employees. All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be
required to provide indoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such
beverages are consumed on the premises.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.092 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premise. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello
wrestling or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with
touching for compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or
gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
No licensee shall sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink
specials or free drinks on any licensed premise in the city.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.093 DRIVE-THROUGH OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be issued for any premises to operate a vehicle “drive-
through” outlet for the sale of alcoholic beverages, nor shall any person or
licensee operate or permit such a vehicle drive-through outlet. This
prohibition shall not apply to a driveup window at any premises licensed for
retail package liquor, wine or malt beverage, including retail beer, where the
primary sales area is arranged for and utilized by persons entering the
premises on foot and manually carrying out the products purchased therein.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.094 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
   Violation of this subchapter shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.095 RETAIL PREMISES NOT TO BE DISORDERLY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 244.120, a retail licensee, a patron, or the
licensee’s agents, servants, or employees shall not cause, suffer, or permit
the licensed premises to be disorderly.
   (B)   Acts which constitute disorderly premises consist of causing,
suffering, or permitting patrons, the licensee, or the licensee’s servants,
agents, or employees to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or
create a risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard, or other emergency;
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose;
      (5)   Creating a public nuisance which is further defined by KRS 241.010
(50);
      (6)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony, or misdemeanor; or
      (7)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, fire, safety, or sanitary
standards established by the state or local government, or by state
administrative regulations, for the licensed premises.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
MINORS
§ 115.105 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Ch. 241 through KRS Ch.
244, no person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter
onto any licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this prohibition,
“premises” specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed
establishment is situated, including any drive-up window. The prohibition
contained in this division (B) shall not apply to premises where the usual and
customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store,
grocery store, drugstore, or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly allow, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licensees, as set out in §
115.085, shall require proof of age of all persons attempting to purchase or
consume alcoholic beverages on the licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individuals’ possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.087.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED
§ 115.115 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises unless said person or entity shall also have a drink license
conferring the privilege of consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.116 EXCEPTIONS.
   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not prohibit
sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the provisions of KRS
Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail distilled spirits and wine
licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or beer tastings as permitted in
804 KAR 11:030.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.117 HABITUAL CONGREGATING.
   (A)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property adjacent to a licensed premise,
shall knowingly allow or permit habitual congregating of persons on the
unenclosed portion of such property so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   No persons shall congregate for the purposes, under the circumstances,
or in the places proscribed in §§
115.115 and
115.116.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under §§
115.115 and
115.116 if such licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the Local
Administrator to post and maintain a legible, painted or printed sign in at
least two (2) separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less
than three (3) inches in height, stating that congregating of persons is
prohibited and that violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS
511.080.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.118 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section, the term:
   (A)   “HABITUAL” shall mean consistent, that is, by frequent practice or
use, but not necessarily constant or exclusive;
   (B)   “PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE” shall mean a retail establishment selling
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to
licenses issued for those purposes;
   (C)   “PUBLIC NUISANCE” shall mean any activity that endangers or interferes
with the general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passersby or the
health, safety and welfare of the public; and
   (D)   “VACANT PROPERTY” shall mean a vacant lot on which no building or
other structure exists or property on which any structure is unoccupied or
unused, or which otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the
right of occupancy.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION
§ 115.130 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section, “KEG” is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six (6) or more gallons of malt beverage.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.131 MALT BEVERAGE KEG IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   All retail licensees (herein after referred to as “licensee”) operating
within the city who sell malt beverages in kegs for consumption off the
premises of the licensee shall attach a numbered identification tag or other
device as provided by the city to each keg at the time of sale and shall
require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for the keg
stating the following.
   (A)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
   (B)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not allow
any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to consume the malt beverage;
   (C)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the identification tag;
   (D)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
   (E)   The purchaser is aware of his or her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.132 KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver’s
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
   (B)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
   (C)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the Local
Administrator within five (5) working days in all situations when the keg is
not returned or is returned with the identification tag removed or obliterated.
   (D)   The Local Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate rules and
regulations and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags
and keg registration forms.
   (E)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.133 UNLAWFUL SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale kegs without
the identification tags attached and the keg registration form completed. It
shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate the
identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and readily
accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for violation of this
section shall be the penalties as set out in §
115.999(B)(2). In addition, licensees violating this section shall be subject
to appropriate alcoholic beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.145 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall complete a server training course provided by the Kentucky Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control, including any person(s) authorized to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages under a caterer’s license.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within thirty (30) days of the date on which the
person first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business
is licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior
to the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the Local ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
recertified in a responsible beverage server training course provided by the
Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control not less than once every
three (3) years thereafter.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 115.155 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules and regulations of the city and the city zoning regulations.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof” or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES
§ 115.165 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only
on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
   (B)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
(4) feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the Local ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may
be granted for seasonal sidewalk cafes, upon application to and authorization
from the ABC Local Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk café
shall be governed by the provisions of this subchapter and shall be subject to
the regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and
public safety officers.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages
unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
   (D)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter and by
permission of the Local ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning chapter and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter or in other provisions of local ordinance,
statute or regulation.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.166 EXCEPTION TO SCREENING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Licensees in the Downtown Business District may request an exception
from this outdoor screening of patio provision to permit seasonal and temporary
sidewalk cafes that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct to the
primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted temporary
sidewalk cafes, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises. A sidewalk
café permit is deemed seasonal and temporary in that licensees with a sidewalk
café permit shall not place tables and seating on public sidewalks on a
continuous basis from November 1 through February 28; however, tables and
seating may be placed intermittently during this period if appropriate weather
occurs.
   (B)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant, which is defined
herein as a food establishment with a kitchen licensed by the County Health
Department, and is licensed under this chapter and the provisions of the state
ABC code, may, upon application to the local ABC administrator, ask permission
to expand on a seasonal and temporary basis, the operation of that restaurant
onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which immediately
adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as “sidewalk café”).
Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a sidewalk
café permit. A sidewalk café permit shall be valid for not more than twelve
(12) months at a time, but may be renewed upon the submission of a new
application.
   (C)   The ABC Administrator may issue the permit if he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant is licensed under this chapter and the ABC Code for
the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
      (2)   The applicant is in compliance with all conditions and restrictions
of said license;
      (3)   The applicant has all necessary building and use permits, including
certification of the Zoning/Codes Officer that the sidewalk café is permitted
at the premises location, in addition to a kitchen license issued by the County
Health Department; and
      (4)   Also finds that the issuance of the permit would not result in any
significant adverse land use impacts.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 115.167 CONDITIONS FOR SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions; provided, however, that the ABC Administrator may without adverse
hearing procedures impose additional reasonable restrictions or withdraw
approval upon the operation of any sidewalk café where necessary in the
judgment of the said Administrator to protect the public health, safety or
welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing. Specifically,
the permit may be revoked by the ABC Administrator if the conditions listed
below are violated or upon the violation of a federal, state or city law. The
permit will also be revoked if the food establishment has two (2) or more
violations of the nuisance ordinance found in City Code of Ordinances. If the
permit is revoked, the owner of the food establishment shall not be eligible to
reapply until one (1) year has passed from the date of the permit revocation.
   (A)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of thirty-six (36) inches must be maintained on the public
sidewalk at all times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner
to obstruct the entrance/exit to the restaurant.
   (B)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs, shall
be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when the
sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the end
of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas, tables,
chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area shown on
the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and chairs
shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
   (C)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café shall
not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not limited to,
trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any public
initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of the
public sidewalk at all times.
   (D)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law, take
reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
   (E)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
   (F)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
   (G)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
   (H)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
   (I)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 155.168 OTHER REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIDEWALK CAFES.
   No sidewalk café permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed
with the ABC Administrator evidence of insurance insuring the licensee against
liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation
of such sidewalk café in an amount to be established by the Mayor. The city
shall be named an additional insured in the policy, providing such insurance
and such policy shall further provide that it may not be canceled except upon
ten (10) day’s written notice (or more) filed with the ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
§ 155.999 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement. City police officers and the Local ABC Administrator are
authorized to enforce this chapter for alleged violations.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Fleming
District Court against an alleged violator, the Local ABC Administrator may
assess the fines and penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per
diem assessments for ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed
by the state change under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this
section shall be adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed
by state law. Payment of all fines shall be made to the Local ABC Administrator
who shall transmit said payments to the City Finance Department to be deposited
in the appropriate designated account.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall, for the
first offense, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned in the county jail for not
more than six (6) months, or both, and for the second and each subsequent
violation, he or she shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in the county jail
for not more than six months, or both. The penalties provided for in this
division (B)(2) shall be in addition to the revocation or suspension of the
offender's license. If the offender is a corporation, LLC, joint stock company,
association or other business organization, or a fiduciary, the principal
officer or officers responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 12-20-21, passed 12-17-20)
CHAPTER 116: BUSINESS INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Section
   
116.01   Creation
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Incentives schedule
   
116.04   Application process
   
116.05   Application review
   
116.06   Events of default
   
116.07   Remedies
   
116.08   Bankruptcy
§ 116.01 CREATION.
   A program which shall be referred to as the "Flemingsburg Business Incentive
Program" is created, by which incentives shall be made available to:
   (A)   Existing businesses for the purposes of remodeling, refurbishing,
expanding, marketing, or other types of improvements;
   (B)   New businesses for fees related to licensing to conduct business,
permit fees associated with construction, and connection fees for utilities;
and
   (C)   New businesses for occupational license fee withholding credits,
according to such terms and conditions required by this chapter.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AGREEMENT.” Any binding signed document made pursuant to this chapter
between the city and an approved company with respect to economic development
within the city.
   “APPLICANT.” A business or company whose employees are primarily engaged, or
will be engaged, in retail, service, professional, administrative, or technical
occupations, or a manufacturer, which business or manufacturer is located, or
proposes to locate its business, in the city, and which commits by agreement to
maintain existing jobs in the event that the business has a reasonable
probability of relocating outside the city, or create a minimum number of new
jobs and annual payroll within the city as hereinafter provided. An applicant
shall not include sexually oriented businesses or businesses that are primarily
engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   “APPLICATION.” The forms and information submitted to the city for the
purposes of receiving consideration for the benefits made available by this
chapter.
   “APPROVED COMPANY/BUSINESS.” An applicant that is recommended by the Finance
Committee and approved by the City Council to have qualified for an incentive.
   “APPROVED COMPANY'S/BUSINESS'S EMPLOYEES.” The full or part- time employees
of an approved company who perform work within the city and are subject to the
city's occupational license fee as set forth in
Chapter 110  of this code.
   “CITY.” The City of Flemingsburg, Fleming County, Kentucky.
   “COMMENCEMENT DATE.” The date that the incentive is first available to the
approved company as provided in the agreement.
   “INCENTIVE YEAR.” The 12-month period beginning on the commencement date,
and each 12-month period thereafter during the term for which the incentive is
available to the approved company.
   “INCENTIVES.” Matching grants for improvements, waivers of permit fees,
waiver of utilities connection fees, and the reduction in the rate and/or
credits for the occupational license fees, awarded to an approved company/
business under the provisions of this chapter to reduce the sums otherwise owed
by an approved company/business and/or its employees in consideration for the
approved company/business locating within the city's boundaries and creating
new jobs.
   “NEW JOBS.” Service, technology, manufacturing, or other jobs that
previously did not exist in the city and which result in taxable wages of
employees of the applicant as a result of the ongoing operation of an approved
company's business.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.03 INCENTIVES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Eligibility requirements.
      (1)   To be eligible for the incentives, the approved company/business
must be located within the corporate boundaries of the city.
      (2)   A completed application including any applicable building plans
must be submitted to the city for review. The applicant may be required to meet
with the reviewing committee during the review process. Applications receiving
the recommendation of the Committee will be submitted to the City Council for
final approval.
   (B)   General incentives.
      (1)   Existing companies/businesses may apply for matching grants for
improvements, for example, marketing, signage, repairs, remodeling,
refurbishing, and the like. The maximum amount for the grants is two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), and will be made as reimbursement for
approved expenses. These grants are contingent upon the approval of the
application by the reviewing committee and the City Council and is subject to
the availability of funds in the General Fund budget.
      (2)   Both existing and new companies/businesses may apply for a waiver
of required permit fees, for example, zoning permits, building permits,
planning fees, and the like.
      (3)   New companies/businesses may apply for a waiver of utilities
connection fees for water, sewer, and gas.
      (4)   New companies/businesses may apply for a waiver of business license
fees for a period of up to three (3) years.
   (C)   Job creation based incentives.
      (1)   Any applicant locating new jobs within the boundaries of the city
that will generate a minimum of new annual payroll of not less than two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), which payroll will otherwise be fully
subject to the city's occupational license fee ("payroll"), may apply for the
incentive. The approval of any incentive shall be conditional on supplying all
required information and on an agreement containing all terms and conditions.
No incentive shall exceed three (3) years in duration under any circumstance.
      (2)   If an approved company/business will generate two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000) or more in new payroll and satisfies all other
restrictions and requirements of the purpose and goals of this chapter, then it
may be entitled to an employee withholding credit equal to 50% of the
occupational licensing fees that would otherwise have been payable to the city.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the city, and an
applicant shall provide any additional information reasonably requested to
enable the city to evaluate the application. An approved company/business shall
not receive an incentive until the application is approved and the agreement
has been properly executed by the Mayor following approval by the City Council.
   (B)   An applicant shall submit a completed application, which shall include
at least the following information:
      (1)   A description of the business;
      (2)   A five-year pro forma, including the number of new jobs to be
created, the wages, salaries, bonuses and commissions expected to be paid, and
the amount of employee withholdings expected to be generated by the new jobs;
and
      (3)   Such financial and non-financial information about the applicant
and/or its principals as is deemed necessary by the reviewing committee to
conclude a recommendation.
   (C)   Each application and its supporting documentation and information
shall be executed under oath by an authorized representative of the applicant
or of the applicant's principal with personal knowledge of the facts and
representations made therein. It shall be unlawful for any such person to
materially misrepresent any statement or fact in the application or supporting
documents or information submitted to the city in the course of applying or
seeking the incentive. Upon conviction for violation of same, the person shall
be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisoned not more than
twelve (12) months or both. For purposes of this division it is not an element
of the offense for the city to rely on the material misrepresentation.
   (D)   If an application receives a favorable recommendation from the
reviewing committee, then the application and a copy of the proposed agreement
shall be forwarded to the City Council for further consideration. Any agreement
and incentive is conditioned upon approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.05 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   The Finance Committee shall review each application for sufficiency
and completeness to determine:
      (1)   Whether the applicant meets the program eligibility requirements;
      (2)   The accuracy of the factual representations in the application, and
the applicant's employment and financial projections;
      (3)   The amount of the appropriate incentive, if any, for which the
applicant qualifies and the terms upon which the committee would recommend
approval to the City Council;
      (4)   Any special credit risks presented by the applicant or proposed
business;
      (5)   Whether the withholding tax credit is in the best interest of the
city using the most sound available financial data and the criteria of this
chapter; and
      (6)   Any and all other matters deemed appropriate to weigh the
worthiness of the applicant for participation in the business incentives
program.
   (B)   Prior to submission of the application to the City Council for
approval, a final proposed written agreement shall be negotiated and included
with the application. The Finance Committee shall include such terms and
conditions within the agreement as deemed appropriate, to ensure that the city
receives full value in consideration for any incentive to be granted,
including, without limitation, provisions requiring continuing operation within
the city for a period beyond the incentive period, provisions for reimbursement
of the incentive and potential remedies for default, and appropriate conditions
precedent to the triggering of incentives to ensure the city receives the full
revenue and job benefits deemed appropriate. Following final approval of the
withholding tax credit by the City Council, the Mayor shall be authorized to
execute on behalf of the city any and all documents necessary to effect closing
of the employee withholdings credit.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.06 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
   The following shall constitute events of default, which may be declared by
the city:
   (A)   Failure of an approved company/business to report or to pay employee
withholdings as required by this subchapter, whether from new jobs or existing
jobs;
   (B)   Failure of an approved company/business to satisfy the projected
schedule of employee withholdings submitted with its incentive program
application or as set forth in the agreement;
   (C)   Failure of an approved company/business to pay any tax, license fee,
penalty, or other charge or obligation to the city pursuant to this code;
   (D)   Failure of an approved company/business to comply with any term,
condition, or obligation imposed by this subchapter;
   (E)   Failure of an approved company/business to comply with any term,
condition, or obligation of the agreement; or
   (F)   The making of any material misrepresentation of any statement or fact
on an approved company's application or supporting documents, whether or not
relied upon by the city.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.07 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In the event of default under the agreement or a violation of this
chapter, the city may suspend the incentive until such time as the default is
cured, or the city may terminate the incentive. If the incentive is terminated,
the city may initiate legal proceedings, if necessary, to recover not less than
the incentive amounts permitted to the approved company up to the date the
incentive was terminated. The approved company/business shall immediately begin
paying to the city the full occupational license fee withholdings for all
employees upon notification of a suspension or termination of the incentive.
All incentives previously credited shall be due and repayable within thirty
(30) days following notice of default unless otherwise agreed by the city.
   (B)   In the event the city must initiate legal proceedings to enforce its
rights under the agreement and/or this chapter, it shall be entitled to collect
its costs, reasonable attorney's fees, and any other charges incurred or
authorized by the agreement or otherwise permitted by law.
   (C)   The failure of the city to declare a default in any event thereof
shall not constitute a waiver thereof.
   (D)   The remedies contained in the agreement shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other remedy authorized by law or agreement. The remedies may
be exercised separately, together, or in any combination thereof, and any such
exercise shall not constitute a waiver of any remaining remedies.
   (E)   In an event of default, the approved company/business shall, in
addition to the remedies specified in this section, pay a liquidated sum in an
amount equal to the difference between the approved company's projected
schedule of employee withholdings and its actual employee withholdings
generated by new jobs reported and/or paid to the city.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
§ 116.08 BANKRUPTCY.
   No discharge in bankruptcy or other bankruptcy proceedings shall affect the
approved company's obligation to comply with this chapter, except as provided
by federal or state law.
(Ord. 10-17-1, passed 10-9-17)
CHAPTER 117: MOBILE SELF-CONTAINED FOOD UNIT VENDORS PROGRAM
Section
   
117.01   Program established
   
117.02   Certification required
   
117.03   Provisions for operation
   
117.04   Program provisions
§ 117.01 PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   That there is hereby established a program for mobile self-contained food
unit vendors to lawfully operate on designated public property, with the
approval of the Mayor of Flemingsburg or their designee, and on certain
designated private property which are zoned Commercial but is otherwise limited
as described in other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-24-2, passed 6-10-24)
§ 117.02 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Mobile self-contained food units must have proper certification by the
Fleming County Health Department to operate as a food unit.
(Ord. 6-24-2, passed 6-10-24)
§ 117.03 PROVISIONS FOR OPERATION.
   The mobile self-contained food unit must be a self-contained, limited-
service food facility which is mechanically, electrically, manually, or
otherwise propelled vehicle or pulled by a vehicle or by a person. Mobile self-
contained food units must be on wheels at all times and shall maintain their
operational conditions so as to remain a mobile unit.
   (A)   If food or beverages are prepared on the mobile self-contained food
unit, the unit must comply with all Health Department rules and guidelines and
display Health Department certification to operate.
   (B)   If only pre-packaged foods are available on the mobile self-contained
food unit the unit must comply with all Health Department rules and guidelines.
(Ord. 6-24-2, passed 6-10-24)
§ 117.04 PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
   The program shall be conducted as follows:
   (A)   Mobile self-contained food units may set up and operate on city-owned
property, including property owned or controlled by the City of Flemingsburg
Tourism and Convention Commission, with written permission of the Mayor of
Flemingsburg or their designee.
   (B)   (1)   Mobile self-contained food units may set up and operate on
privately-owned commercial property after the vendor obtains a written
agreement from the property owner or leaseholder.
      (2)   Mobile self-contained food units shall not set up and operate, on
private commercial property, within one hundred (100) feet of the property line
of any brick and mortar restaurant which pays a “restaurant tax” as defined by
other ordinances of the City of Flemingsburg.
   (C)   An applicant for the program must possess a City of Flemingsburg
mobile self-contained food unit license for each mobile self-contained food
unit operated by said vendor.
   (D)   As a condition of participating in the program each person receiving a
license must sign a verified statement that they agree to conform and abide by
the requirement of this chapter and shall maintain a comprehensive general
liability insurance policy in a minimum amount of not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00). A copy of the same shall be attached with all
applications before a license is issued.
   (E)   Upon the applicant meeting all requirements of this chapter a mobile
self-contained food unit license shall be issued by the City Clerk or their
designee. This license shall always be displayed by the vendor while conducting
business as a part of this program.
   (F)   The license issued is not transferrable and the issuance of the
license does not create or confer a property interest of any kind.
   (G)   A mobile self-contained food unit license shall expire on December 31
of each year.
   (H)   In addition to any other penalties for a violation of this chapter, a
violation of this chapter shall result in the automatic revocation of the
program license. A license may also be suspended or revoked by the Code
Enforcement Officer or a Flemingsburg police officer based upon a finding that
the licensee has failed to abide by the requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   A mobile self-contained food unit may not locate or operate within an
area zoned as a residential district under the City of Flemingsburg or within
one hundred feet (100) of the property line of a dwelling unit located in an
area zoned as a residential district except in city parks.
   (J)   The mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall be subject to any
city restaurant tax as defined by other ordinances of the City of Flemingsburg
and shall be considered a “restaurant” for such purposes.
   (K)   A mobile self-contained food unit may not remain on public property
while not in use and shall not remain on public property overnight unless
written permission is obtained from the Mayor of Flemingsburg or their
designee.
   (L)   The location of the mobile self-contained food unit must allow for
proper vehicular and pedestrian access and required fire access.
   (M)   Mobile self-contained food units shall not set up or park on any
sidewalk within the City of Flemingsburg without the express written permission
of the Mayor or their designee.
   (N)   The mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall provide trash
containers sufficient in size to collect all waste generated by customers and
staff of the vendor. The vendor shall also be responsible for any litter or
debris located within a forty (40) foot radius of their unit, including
sidewalks in the immediate vicinity. All waste generated shall be removed from
the area by the mobile self-contained food unit vendor.
   (O)   To encourage tourism and participation in special events, any mobile
self-contained food unit vendor may operate within the geographical boundaries
of a special event within city limits without purchasing a food vendors license
and/or a business license if:
      (1)   The Mayor of Flemingsburg has designated the event as an organized
civic or community sponsored event; and
      (2)   The mobile food vendor has proper certification by the Fleming
County Health Department to operate as a food unit; and
      (3)   The mobile food vendor shall not conduct business as part of this
special event for more than three (3) days.
      (4)   While participating in an organized civic or community sponsored
event, within the geographical boundaries of that specific event, the mobile
self-contained food unit shall not be required to collect and remit the city’s
restaurant tax.
   (P)   A mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall not use any sewer line
or drain within the public right-of-way or on public property.
   (Q)   A mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall not use any sewer line
or drain of a private property owner.
   (R)   A mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall not use any electrical
outlet or waterline within the public right-of-way or public property without
the express written consent of the Mayor of Flemingsburg or their designee.
   (S)   A mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall not use any electrical
outlet, or waterline of an existing private property owner without the express
written consent of the private property owner.
   (T)   A mobile self-contained food unit shall not block access to use of any
public bench or any public utility pole.
   (U)   A mobile self-contained food unit shall not set up any chairs or any
table on the public right-of-way without the express written permission of the
Mayor or their designee.
   (V)   A mobile self-contained food unit vendor shall not in any manner
damage public property or the public right-of-way. Examples include but are not
necessarily limited to the use of stakes, rods, or any method that is required
to be drilled, driven, or otherwise fixed in an asphalt pavement, curb, bricks,
sidewalks, or buildings. The vendors shall be solely responsible for any such
damage.
(Ord. 6-24-2, passed 6-10-24)
CHAPTER 118: MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Section
   
118.01   Purpose
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Authorization of facilities and fee
   
118.04   Requirements and procedure for issuing license
   
118.05   License renewal
   
118.06   Inspections and investigations
   
118.07   Time, date and place of operation
   
118.08   Exterior signage of cannabis dispensary
   
118.09   Applicability
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to authorize the establishment of
certain types of medical cannabis businesses in the City of Flemingsburg,
Kentucky and provide for the adoption of reasonable restrictions to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the community at large; retain
the character of the neighborhoods; and mitigate potential impacts on
surrounding properties and persons. It is also the intent of this chapter to
help defray administrative and enforcement costs associated with the operation
of a cannabis business in the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant immunity from criminal or
civil prosecution, penalty, or sanction for the cultivation, manufacture,
possession, use, sale, or distribution of marijuana in any form that is not in
compliance with Kentucky Revised Statutes or Kentucky Administrative
Regulations.
   (C)   As of the effective date of this chapter, marijuana remains classified
as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under the Federal Controlled Substances
Act, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq., which makes it unlawful to manufacture,
distribute, or dispense marijuana, or possess marijuana with intent to
manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to grant immunity from any criminal prosecution under federal laws.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, any term defined by KRS 218B.010 or
Kentucky Administrative Regulation 915 KAR 1:001 shall have the same definition
for the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.03 AUTHORIZATION OF FACILITIES AND FEE.
   (A)   The maximum number of each type of cannabis business allowed in the
City of Flemingsburg shall be as follows:
      (1)   Cultivator: one (1).
         (a)   Cultivator may be a Tier I, Tier II, Tier III, or Tier IV
facility as defined by the Kentucky Medical Cannabis Program.
         (b)   This entity may also obtain a “producer” license through the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and operate under this license within the city limits.
      (2)   Processor: one (1).
      (3)   Safety compliance facility: one (1).
      (4)   Dispensary: one (1).
   (B)   At least every three (3) years after the adoption of this chapter, the
Ewing, Flemingsburg, and Fleming County Planning Commission shall review the
maximum number of each type of cannabis business allowed and determine whether
this maximum number should be changed. This review and finding should be
recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting and submitted to the
Flemingsburg City Council for consideration.
   (C)   A cannabis business operating within the city limits of Flemingsburg,
Kentucky shall have a business license. In addition to the usual fee charged
for a business license a cannabis business shall pay an annual nonrefundable
fee of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to help defray the
administrative and enforcement costs associated with the operation of a
cannabis business. The initial fees shall be set as follows:
      (1)   Cultivator I: annual fee of one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00).
      (2)   Cultivator II: annual fee of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      (3)   Cultivator III: annual fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      (4)   Cultivator IV: annual fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      (5)   Processor: annual fee of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      (6)   Cultivator/producer: annual fee of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
      (7)   Dispensary: annual fee of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
      (8)   Safety compliance facility: annual fee of one thousand two hundred
dollars ($1,200.00).
   (D)   The City Council of the City or Flemingsburg shall review this annual
fee at least once every three (3) years to determine if a new fee schedule
should be enacted.
   (E)   No cannabis business shall operate within the City of Flemingsburg
without first paying this annual fee.
   (F)   (1)   In addition to the annual, nonrefundable fee, licensed
dispensary(s) shall collect a five percent (5%) regulatory fee on the sale of
cannabis products and this fee shall be remitted to the City of Flemingsburg.
      (2)   Regulatory fees shall be paid on or before the twentieth (20th) day
or the month for the preceding month.
   (G)   In accordance with KRS 218B.130 the reasonable established local fees
shall be established, assessed, collected, and shared between the city and the
county, in a manner to be negotiated between the city and the county.
   (H)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the Fleming County Fiscal
Court from assessing an additional reasonable fee on any cannabis business to
compensate for any additional corrections impact caused by the approval or
cannabis business operations.
      (2)   This fee may be collected by the City of Flemingsburg and remitted
to the county as part of an interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.04 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING LICENSE.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate a cannabis business within the City
of Flemingsburg without a valid business license issued by the City of
Flemingsburg pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a business license to operate a cannabis business
shall file an application with the Office of the City Clerk upon a form
provided by the City of Flemingsburg.
   (C)   Every applicant for a business license to operate a cannabis business
shall submit with the application a photocopy of the applicant’s valid and
current license issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky in accordance with the
Kentucky Medical Cannabis Program.
   (D)   Upon an applicant’s completion of the above-provided form and
furnishing of all required information and documentation, the City Clerk or
their designee shall accept the application and assign it a business license
number. This business license shall be considered a provisional license.
   (E)   A provisional license means only that the applicant has submitted a
valid application for a business license, and the applicant shall not locate or
operate a cannabis business without obtaining all other permits and approvals
required by all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the City of
Flemingsburg. A provisional license will lapse and be void if such permits and
approvals are not completed within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the
issuance of the provisional license.
   (F)   Within fourteen (14) days from the applicant submitting proof of
obtaining all other required permits and approvals and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk or their designee shall approve a business license allowing
the cannabis business to operate within the city limits of the City of
Flemingsburg.
   (G)   Maintaining a valid cannabis business license issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky is a condition for the issuance and maintenance of a
cannabis business license under this chapter and continued operation of any
cannabis business.
   (H)   A business license to operate a cannabis business issued under this
chapter is not transferable.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.05 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   (1)   A business license to operate a cannabis business shall be valid
for one year from July 1 until June 30, unless revoked as provided by law.
      (2)   (a)   Business licenses for a cannabis business obtained after July
1 shall be valid until June 30 of the following year.
         (b)   The fee for this business license shall not be prorated.
   (B)   (1)   A valid business license to operate a cannabis business may be
renewed on an annual basis by submitting a renewal application upon a form
provided by the City of Flemingsburg and payment of the annual fee.
      (2)   This business license will be valid from July 1 of each year to
June 30 of the following year.
   (C)   Application to renew a business license to operate a cannabis business
shall be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of its expiration.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.06 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Flemingsburg Police Department and/or the Flemingsburg Code
Enforcement Officer may conduct announced or unannounced inspections and
investigations to determine the licensee’s compliance with KRS Chapter 218B,
915 KAR Chapter 1, this chapter and compliance with the International Building
Code.
   (B)   These inspections and investigations shall occur during regular
working hours and at other reasonable times.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.07 TIME, DATE AND PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All cannabis business, with the exception of a dispensary, may operate
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
   (B)   Dispensary(s) may be open to the public between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Dispensary(s) shall be closed to the
public between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday. Dispensary(s)
shall remain closed to the public on Sunday.
   (C)   The site of a proposed cannabis business shall not be located within
one thousand (1,000) feet of an existing elementary school, secondary school,
or a daycare. For purposes of this chapter, one thousand (1,000) feet shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest property line or an existing
school, secondary school, or daycare center to the nearest property line of the
applicant’s proposed place of business.
   (D)   Cannabis businesses defined as a cultivator, processor or producer
shall only be located in areas zoned by the City of Flemingsburg as either I-1
(Light Industrial) or I-2 (General/Heavy Industrial).
   (E)   Dispensary(s) shall only be located in areas zoned by the City of
Flemingsburg as either C-1 (Commercial) or C-B-D (Central Business District).
   (F)   Safety compliance facility shall only be located in areas zoned by the
City of Flemingsburg as either C-1 (Commercial), I-1 (Light Industrial) or I-2
(General/Heavy Industrial).
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.08 EXTERIOR SIGNAGE OF CANNABIS DISPENSARY.
   Exterior signage may only, at most, include text that is the licensee’s (1)
business or trade name; (2) location and contact information; and (3) business
type. Exterior signage cannot include a licensee’s logo, symbol, branded
colors, or any images, including but not limited to, depicting cannabis/
cannabis products or the imagery or action of smoking/vaping. Exterior signs
also cannot include mottos, selling messages, or any other non-essential text.
Exterior signs must be on the same parcel as the store and affixed to a
building or permanent structure (e.g., signpost). Exterior signage cannot be
larger than necessary to reasonably display the information on the sign to
individuals within or near the licensed premises and cannot be illuminated by
neon lights.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.09 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons, entities
and facilities described herein.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
responsible for a civil fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation. Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist
constitutes a separate violation. A violator of this chapter shall also be
subject to such additional sanctions, remedies, and judicial orders as are
authorized by Kentucky law.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se. In
addition to any other remedy available at law, the City of Flemingsburg may
bring an action for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain, prevent, or abate any violation of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced and administered by any officer of the
City of Flemingsburg Police Department, the Code Enforcement Officer, or other
such official as may be designated from time to time by the Mayor of
Flemingsburg.
(Ord. 7-24-1, passed 7-8-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
   
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
   
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
   
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
   
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
   
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
   
140.   COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK PROGRAM
   
141.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE   KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT
   First degree   508.010   B felony
   Second degree   508.020   C felony
   Third degree   508.025   D felony
   Fourth degree   508.030   A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturbance   508.040   B misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
CRIMINAL ABUSE
   First degree   508.100   C felony
   Second degree   508.110   D felony
   Third degree   508.120   A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL COERCION   509.080   A misdemeanor
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE   509.070   D felony
KIDNAPPING   509.040   A or B felony;
         capital offense
MANSLAUGHTER
   First degree   507.030   B felony
   Second degree   507.040   C felony
MENACING   508.050   B misdemeanor
MURDER   507.020   Capital offense
RECKLESS HOMICIDE   507.050   D felony
STALKING
   First degree   508.140   D felony
   Second degree   508.150   A misdemeanor
TERRORISTIC THREATENING   508.080   A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT
   First degree   509.020   D felony
   Second degree   509.030   A misdemeanor
WANTON ENDANGERMENT
   First degree   508.060   D felony
   Second degree   508.070   A misdemeanor
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE      KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
BIGAMY      530.010   D felony
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT   530.030   A misdemeanor
INCEST      530.020   C felony
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING
WELFARE OF   530.080   A misdemeanor
MINORS
   Abandonment of   530.040   D felony
   Endangering welfare of   530.060   A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
   First degree   530.064   A, B, or C felony
   Second degree   530.065   D felony
   Third degree   530.070   A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT   530.050   A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT   530.050   D felony
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE      KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
ARSON
   Defrauding insurer   513.060   D felony
   First degree   513.020   A felony
   Second degree   513.030   B felony
   Third degree   513.040   D felony
BURGLARY
   First degree   511.020   B felony
   Second degree   511.030   C felony
   Third degree   511.040   D felony
   Possession of burglar's tools   511.050   A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
   First degree   512.020   D felony
   Second degree   512.030   A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL TRESPASS
   First degree   511.060   A misdemeanor
   Second degree   511.070   B misdemeanor
   Third degree   511.080   Violation
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Criminal simulation   516.110   A misdemeanor
   Forgery
   First degree   516.020   C felony
   Second degree   516.030   D felony
   Third degree   516.040   A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrument
   First degree   516.050   C felony
   Second degree   516.060   D felony
   Third degree   516.070   A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device   516.090   D felony
   Using slugs
   First degree   516.120   D felony
   Second degree   516.130   B misdemeanor
LITTERING, CRIMINAL   512.070   A misdemeanor
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES
   Criminal possession of   512.060   B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of   512.050   B misdemeanor
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY   512.080   Violation
ROBBERY
   First degree   515.020   B felony
   Second degree   515.030   C felony
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Device for theft of telephone
   services   514.065   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Obscuring identity of machine   514.120   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Possession of stolen mail   514.150   D felony
   Receiving stolen property   514.110   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft by deception   514.040   A misdemeanor
         or
         C or D felony
   Theft by extortion   514.080   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft by failure to make
   disposition   514.070   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft by unlawful taking   514.030   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft of labor   514.090   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft of mail matter   514.140   D felony
   Theft of property   514.050   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Theft of services   514.060   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE      KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
PORNOGRAPHY
   Advertising obscene material   531.050   B misdemeanor
   Distribution
   Distribution of obscene      A or B
   matter   531.020   misdemeanor
   Distribution to minor   531.030   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Using minors to distribute   531.040   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance
   by a minor
   Advertising material   531.360   A misdemeanor
   containing
   Distributing matter   531.340   D felony
   containing
   Promoting sale of matter      A misdemeanor;
   containing   531.350   C or D felony
   Using minors to distribute   531.370   C or D felony
   such matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity   531.060   A or B
         misdemeanor;
         D felony
   Sexual performance by minor
   Promotion of   531.320   A, B, or C
         felony
   Use of minor   531.310   A, B, or C
         felony
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES
   Loitering for prostitution   529.080   Violation
   purposes      or
         B misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution   529.070   B misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution
   First degree   529.030   A, B, or C
         felony
   Second degree   529.040   D felony
   Third degree   529.050   A misdemeanor
   Prostitution   529.020   B misdemeanor
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE      KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING   528.040   D felony
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING   528.110   A misdemeanor
PROHIBITED
PARI-MUTUEL WAGERING   558.120   A misdemeanor
PERMITTING GAMBLING   528.070   B misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE   528.080   A misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS
   First degree   528.050   D felony
   Second degree   528.060   A misdemeanor
PROMOTING GAMBLING
   First degree   528.020   D felony
   Second degree   528.030   A misdemeanor
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE   KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bribery of public servant   521.020   C felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation   521.040   A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation   521.030   B misdemeanor
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bail jumping
      First degree   520.070   D felony
      Second degree   520.080   A misdemeanor
   Escape
      First degree   520.020   C felony
      Second degree   520.030   D felony
      Third degree   520.040   B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension
      First degree   520.120   D felony
      Second degree   520.130   A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband
      First degree   520.050   D felony
      Second degree   520.060   A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest   520.090   A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor   520.100   A misdemeanor
   vehicle
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION, INTERFERENCE WITH
   Bribe receiving by juror   524.070   D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness   24.030   D felony
   Bribing a juror   524.060   D felony
   Bribing a witness   524.020   D felony
   Harassing a witness   524.045   A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a judicial officer   524.120   D felony
   Intimidating a juror   524.080   D felony
   Intimidating a witness   524.040   D felony
   Jury tampering   524.090   A misdemeanor
   Retaliating against a witness   524.055   D felony
Penalty, see Ch. 139
   Simulating legal process   524.110   B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence   524.100   D felony
   Tampering with a witness   524.050   A misdemeanor
   Unlawful practice of law   524.130   B misdemeanor
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   False swearing   523.040   B misdemeanor
   Perjury
      First degree   523.020   D felony
      Second degree   523.030   A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to   523.100   B misdemeanor
   authorities
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, OBSTRUCTION OF
   Compounding a crime   519.030   A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident   519.040   A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant   519.050   A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operations   519.020   A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records   519.060   D felony
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF
   Misuse of confidential information   522.040   D felony
   Official misconduct
      First degree   522.020   A misdemeanor
      Second degree   522.030   B misdemeanor
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE   KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
ABUSE OF CORPSE   525.120   A misdemeanor
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   First degree   525.125   D felony
   Second degree   525.130   A misdemeanor
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS
   First degree   525.105   D felony
   Second degree   525.110   A misdemeanor
DISORDERLY CONDUCT   525.060   B misdemeanor
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS   525.150   B misdemeanor
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Divulging illegally obtained   526.060   A misdemeanor
   information
   Eavesdropping   526.020   D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device   526.030   D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device   526.040   A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private   526.050   A misdemeanor
   communications
FAILURE TO DISPERSE   525.160   B misdemeanor
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
(Editor's note: KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating the transfer,
ownership, possession, carrying, or transportation of firearms, ammunition, or
components of firearms or combination thereof.)
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS   525.080   B misdemeanor
HARASSMENT   525.070   Violation
INCITING TO RIOT   525.040   A misdemeanor
LOITERING   525.090   Violation
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE   525.140   B misdemeanor
PUBLIC INTOXICATION   525.100   B misdemeanor
RIOT
   First degree   525.020   D felony
   Second degree   525.030   A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY   525.050   B misdemeanor
VIOLATING GRAVES   525.115   A misdemeanor
         or
         D felony
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE   KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
INDECENT EXPOSURE   510.150   B misdemeanor
RAPE
   First degree   510.040   A or B felony
   Second degree   510.050   C felony
   Third degree   510.060   D felony
SEXUAL ABUSE
   First degree   510.110   D felony
   Second degree   510.120   A misdemeanor
   Third degree   510.130   B misdemeanor
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT   510.140   A misdemeanor
SODOMY
   First degree   510.070   A or B felony
   Second degree   510.080   C felony
   Third degree   510.090   D felony
   Fourth degree   510.100   A misdemeanor
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE   KRS SECTION   PENALTY CLASS
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT   506.010   A or B
      misdemeanor
      B or C felony
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY   506.040   A or B
      misdemeanor
      B or C felony
CRIMINAL FACILITATION   506.080   A or B
      misdemeanor
      D felony
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION   506.030   A or B
      misdemeanor
      B or C felony
CRIMINAL SYNDICATE   506.120   B felony
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in
addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
or not the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or
alternative penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case
may be. If the trial is by jury then the jury shall have the discretion. This
rule shall apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty
authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony may
be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge may be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount
not to exceed $10,000 or double his gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B)   In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission
of a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant's ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant's dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant's
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant's gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant's gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is
the greater.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
   (B)   The authorized maximum terms of imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)   For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than life
imprisonment;
      (2)   For a Class B felony, not less than 10 years nor more than 20
years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than 5 years nor more than 10 years;
and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than 5 years.
   (C)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060)
CHAPTER 140: COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK PROGRAM
Section
   
140.01   Findings; purpose
   
140.02   Administration; compliance
   
140.03   Referrals
   
140.04   Work assignments
§ 140.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   The city finds that a substantial public benefit can be realized from
community service performed work by individuals sentenced or diverted to work
at community service by the Circuit Court and District Court.
(Ord. 3-97-1, passed 3-3-97)
§ 140.02 ADMINISTRATION; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be authorized to adopt and promulgate written rules,
regulations and forms necessary for the implementation and administration of
the city's community service work program as authorized by this chapter,
including the specific provision that the Mayor or the Mayor's designee from
the Police Department shall be responsible for direct supervision of any
individual assigned to community service.
   (B)   The city shall report to the referring Court as to the defendant's
labor and compliance with the community service work sentence. The city shall
immediately report to the referring Court any failure to report for work or any
failure to work in accordance with the conditions of the defendant's sentence
to work at community service.
(Ord. 3-97-1, passed 3-3-97)
§ 140.03 REFERRALS.
   (A)   The city is authorized to accept referrals from the Circuit Court and
District Court for community service work in accordance with KRS 533.070 and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations implemented
hereunder.
   (B)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee from the Police Department, shall
approve or disapprove in writing, the defendant's referral for community
service work. No defendant shall have automatic or guaranteed acceptance by the
city for community service work. The Mayor or the Mayor's designee from the
Police Department may reject any community service work referral, except that
no defendant shall be rejected on the grounds of race, religion, gender, age or
disability.
   (C)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee from the Police Department, shall
maintain records of community service work referrals, and the Mayor, or the
Mayor's designee from the Police Department, shall make a report at the regular
monthly City Council meeting regarding the number of community service
referrals accepted for work during the preceding month, the number of community
service hours rendered for the preceding month, and the public projects and
activities for which community service workers were assigned.
(Ord. 3-97-1, passed 3-3-97)
§ 140.04 WORK ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   An individual accepted by the city for community service work shall
work only for the city in public projects or public activities of the city. No
individual shall be assigned to work for any private individual or business.
   (B)   No person shall be assigned to community service work that may be
unduly hazardous or work that would endanger the life or health of any person.
   (C)   No person shall be assigned to community service work for more than
eight (8) hours in any one (1) day and no person shall be assigned to work for
more than five (5) days during any one (1) week.
   (D)   Defendant's community work assignment shall, where possible, preserve
the ordinary employment or educational program of the defendant.
(Ord. 3-97-1, passed 3-3-97)
CHAPTER 141: CURFEW
Section
   
141.01   Establishing curfew hours and directing police action
   
141.02   Procedures to be used
 
   
141.99   Penalty
§ 141.01 ESTABLISHING CURFEW HOURS AND DIRECTING POLICE ACTION.
   (A)   The Police Department shall contact all persons reasonably believed to
be under eighteen (18) years of age who are observed on public ways, public
property, or on non-residential private property, any time after midnight local
time on Sunday night through Thursday night, and after 1:00 a.m. local time on
Saturday and Sunday mornings.
   (B)   Exceptions to curfew hours. In the following exceptional cases, a
minor, in or upon a public place in the city during the hours provided for in
Section 1 shall not be considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian;
      (3)   In case of reasonable necessity demonstrated by the minor's parent
or guardian such as necessity caused by illness in the family or unavailability
of an adult to make a trip to obtain needed items for the family;
      (4)   When attending or returning home, by direct route from, and within
one (1) hour of the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a
religious or other voluntary association, provided that justification
indicating the place and time of termination of the event can be given to any
investigating officer of the Police Department;
      (5)   When engaged in any lawful employment activity or going to or
returning home from any lawful employment activity;
      (6)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle for the purpose of passing through, by a direct
route, from one (1) location to another, including all minors that may also be
within the vehicle; and/or
      (7)   When involved in an emergency.
(Ord. 4-08-3, passed 4-29-08; Am. Ord. 2-17-1, passed 2-13-17)
§ 141.02 PROCEDURES TO BE USED.
   The following procedures shall be used with city police encounter a
suspected juvenile at late hours defined herein:
   (A)   The police officer shall ask the suspected juvenile for his or her
name, address, home telephone number, and identification. If the police officer
determines or has reasonable cause to believe that a curfew violation has
occurred, the police officer may obtain from the minor the information
necessary to issue a warning notice to the minor's parent, guardian or person
having legal custody, and then take the minor to his or her home or direct the
minor to proceed immediately to his or her home, or take the minor to the
Flemingsburg Police Department until released to the parent, guardian or person
having legal custody. If the parent, guardian or person having legal custody
does not appear within two (2) hours from the time the minor is taken into
custody, the police shall follow the requirements set forth in KRS Chapter 610
and other applicable provisions of the Kentucky Unified Juvenile Code.
   (B)   The police officer would complete a Field Interview Report, to be
filed with the Police Chief during the police officer’s tour of duty,
containing the information obtained from persons who are confirmed to be
juveniles.
   (C)   The Police Chief or his/her designee will, within forty- eight (48)
hours after the Field Interview Report is filed (or three (3) business days if
the incident occurs on a weekend or holiday), send a first incident letter to
the parent or guardian of persons identified in the Field Interview Report
advising of the police contact with the child.
   (D)   Upon a third Field Interview Report being filed with the Police Chief,
a member of the Police Department shall sign a complaint in the Fleming
District Court charging the parent or guardian under KRS 530.070 for unlawful
transaction with a minor and charging the juvenile with criminal trespass in
the third degree under KRS 511.080.
   (E)   Each incident letter shall be mailed postage prepaid, certified return
receipt requested, or a member of the Police Department shall deliver the
letters personally or make a return. The certified mail receipts or the
personal delivery return shall be attached to the respective Field Interview
Report.
   (F)   The Police Chief or his/her designee shall appoint a supervising
officer of the Police Department to coordinate the juvenile contact policy
established under this chapter. The appointed officer shall be responsible for
maintaining all reports, letters, complaints, and other records pertaining to
juveniles contacted under this policy.
(Ord. 4-08-3, passed 4-29-08; Am. Ord. 2-17-1, passed 2-13-17)
§ 141.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a violation by the
parent, guardian or person having legal custody, punishable under KRS 530.070,
unlawful transaction with a minor, by a fine of no less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and incarceration up
to twelve (12) months per violation.
(Am. Ord. 2-17-1, passed 2-13-17)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
   
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
153.   HOUSING AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS CODE
   
154.   SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE DEVELOPMENT
   
155.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Designated enforcement officer
   
150.03   Building inspection program
   
150.04   Permits and fees
   
150.05   Procedure for appeals
   
150.06   Building permits
   
150.07   Setback requirements
Underground Facility Damage Prevention
   
150.10   Adoption of Underground Facility Damage Prevention Act of 1994
   
150.11   Excavators to prevent damage
   
150.12   Protection notification center
Historic Preservation Code
   
150.20   Guidelines
Electrical Inspectors
   
150.35   Electrical permits required
   
150.36   Electrical inspectors
   
150.37   Fee schedule for electrical inspections
   
150.38   Contract provisions
Residential Rental Unit Permit
   
150.50   Purpose and scope
   
150.51   Definitions
   
150.52   Permit required
   
150.53   Ongoing requirements of permittees
   
150.54   Retroactive application; landlord-tenant relations
   
150.55   Effect of noncompliance
   
150.56   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Inspector, see §
31.39
CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code (which incorporates most provisions of the
International Building Code) promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the Kentucky
Residential Code (which incorporates most provisions of the International
Residential Building Code) promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are hereby
adopted in full as an Ordinance of the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky as if set
out at length herein.
   (B)   A copy of the Kentucky Building Code is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of the building code
for reference.
   (C)   An attested copy of this chapter shall be transmitted to the Office of
Housing Buildings and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 11-09-1, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 11-16-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 150.02 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Codes Enforcement Officer shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code. All building code inspections
shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Office of Housing,
Buildings and Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by a
state certified electrical inspector specifically approved by this
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 11-09-1, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 11-16-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky for application to all
buildings. The city specifically adopts inspection of all one- and two-family
dwellings, and all accessory structures within the city limits.
(Ord. 11-09-1, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 11-16-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for the following: replacement of an
existing component, i.e. a driveway or sidewalk or an out building (if not
enlarged); remodeling the interior of a structure (provided no structural walls
are changed); replacing a roof (shingles, metal or other material);
installation of new siding; replacement of windows (provided the window size is
not enlarged).
   (B)   A permit shall be required for the following improvements: an increase
in the size of an existing structure, i.e. addition of room, enlarging a porch,
enclosing a porch, adding a deck; conversion of a garage into a family room or
other living quarters; any new structure or addition to an existing structure.
   (C)   The fees for permits and inspections shall be as follows:
Residential:
New construction            $50.00 + .06 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Addition               $20.00 + .05 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Remodel               $20.00
Storage buildings (> 120 sq. ft.)      $25.00 + .05 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Swimming pools            $25.00
Other Accessory Structures         20.00
Commercial Multi-Family
State jurisdiction            $100.00
Commercial:
New construction            $100.00 + .05 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Addition               $50.00 + .04 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Remodel               $50.00
Storage buildings (> 120 sq. ft.)      $30.00 + .05 sq. ft. ($300.00 maximum)
Other Accessory Structures         $20.00
Demolition Permits:
Single-family               $25.00
Multi-family               $50.00
Commercial               $50.00
Accessory building < 1000 sq. ft.      $15.00   
   (D)   In addition, no building or other structure shall be erected, moved,
added to, or structurally altered, or demolished without a zoning permit. When
required by the Kentucky Building Code, a building permit must also be
obtained.
Zoning Permits:
Zoning permit               $10.00
Fences                  $15.00
Storage buildings (<120 sq. ft.)      $20.00
Mobile home               $50.00
(Ord. 11-09-1, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 11-16-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 150.05 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS.
   The City of Flemingsburg shall utilize the appeals structure permitted by
KRS 198B(5) or its successor provisions authorizing appeals directly to the
Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction for any appeal of the local City
Codes Enforcement Officer decisions made hereunder, all subject to the state
time lines for such direct appeals.
(Ord. 11-09-1, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 11-16-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “IMPROVEMENT.” Increases in size of existing structures, such as
enlargement of a porch which already exists, or a change in the character of
the structure, such as the conversion of a garage into a family room or living
quarters, and the like. Repair of existing structures, such as re-shingling of
a roof, installation of new siding, and the like, shall not be subject to
licensing as provided herein.
      (2)   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Any new structure built within the city limits,
or any addition to any existing structure within the city limits.
   (B)   The following rates are hereby fixed, established, and promulgated by
the city for the issuance of a building permit for new construction, and
improvement of existing structures, conducted and carried on within the
corporate limits of the city. Before any person, firm, company, or corporation
shall conduct or engage in construction of any new building or structure, or
make improvements to existing buildings or structures, in the city, such
person, firm, company, or corporation shall first procure a permit to so do and
pay the fee thereof as follows:
      (1)   Single-family residential construction or improvement. For any
building used for residential purposes as a single-family dwelling, a rate of
$1 per $1,000 of construction or improvement cost with a maximum permit fee of
$100.
      (2)   All other construction or improvement. All other buildings and
structures not used as single-family dwellings are to pay a rate of $1.25 per
$1,000 of construction or improvement cost with a maximum permit fee of $250.
   (C)   All permit fees levied and collected hereunder are to be paid into the
General Revenue Fund of the city and may be used for the general purposes and
needs of the city.
   (D)   It is the duty of the City Clerk-Treasurer to verify construction cost
of the job, and any difference in the actual construction or improvement cost
and that reported at the time of obtaining the building permit, as verified
from the tax records on the basis of change in assessment due to such
structure, may be added to the permit applicant’s property tax bill issued by
the city at the rate as established above.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this section and failure or neglect on the part of the Inspector
to enforce the provisions of this section shall be grounds for his dismissal by
the Mayor. The Building Inspector shall ensure that no buildings are erected or
constructed within five feet of the property lines, and shall further ensure
that not more than one mobile home is placed on a single lot, and that proper
road frontages are available.
   (F)   No permit issued under this section is subject to refund, even if the
structure contemplated is never actually constructed or improved.
   (G)   There is specifically exempted from the application of this section
any building placed on real estate within the city which building is of a non-
permanent nature, which has a floor area not exceeding 100 square feet, such as
small metal storage buildings.
(Ord. 4-84-1, passed 4-2-84) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to locate,
erect, or construct any residential or commercial structure or building within
the city limits, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No dwelling, mobile home, or other structure shall be erected or
placed on a lot which does not abut at least one public street for a minimum
distance of at least 50 feet.
   (C)   No dwelling or mobile home or any other structure other than fences
shall be erected or placed on a lot unless such structure is located not less
than five feet from the property line in all directions.
   (D)   The five-foot setback may be waived by the adjoining property owners
only if such adjoining property owners shall execute a document which shall
constitute a covenant running with their land which prevents the adjoining
property owner or his successors or assigns from constructing or causing to be
placed any structure closer than ten feet of the structure for which waiver is
granted. The securing of the waiver shall be the responsibility of the property
owner desiring the waiver, and the document shall be recorded in the office of
the Fleming County Clerk at the expense of the property owner requesting the
waiver. The waiver shall be on a form provided by the city, and it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner requesting the waiver to see that all
proper parties shall execute the waiver document.
(Ord. 3-85-1, passed 3-4-85) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNDERGROUND FACILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 150.10 ADOPTION OF UNDERGROUND FACILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION ACT.
   The Underground Facility Damage Prevention Act of 1994 found at KRS 367.4901
et seq., and any future amendments thereto, are incorporated and adopted herein
by reference. A copy of KRS 367.4901 et seq. is made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-94-2, passed 12-19-94)
§ 150.11 EXCAVATORS TO PREVENT DAMAGE.
   All excavators as defined by KRS 367.4903(4) operating within the city and
operating near the city’s water, natural gas and sewage facilities located
outside of the city shall avoid and prevent excavation damage to the city’s
underground utility facilities by complying with KRS 367.4901 et seq. and this
chapter.
(Ord. 12-94-2, passed 12-19-94)
§ 150.12 PROTECTION NOTIFICATION CENTER.
   (A)   The city shall operate and maintain its own protection notification
center through which an excavator shall contact the city for information
regarding the approximate location of the city's underground water, natural gas
and sewage facilities.
   (B)   The location, office hours and telephone numbers of the city's
protection notification center are as follows:
         Location      Office Hours      Telephone Number
      (1)   City Hall      Mon.-Fri.      606/845-5951
         P.O. Box 126      8 a.m.-5 p.m.      606/845-2021
         S. Main Cross St.
         Flemingsburg, KY 41041
      (2)   Water Treatment Plant   Mon.-Fri.      606/845-6861
         (water and natural gas)   8 a.m.-5 p.m.
         P.O. Box 126
         Flemingsburg, KY 41041
      (3)   WWTP            Mon.-Fri.      606/845-5711
         (sewage)            8 a.m.-5 p.m.
         Route 1, Box 359
         Highway 32/Morehead Road
         Flemingsburg, KY 41041
      (4)   City-County Dispatch   24 hours      911 EMERGENCY         
(emergency/after hours) ONLY
         Fleming County Courthouse         606/845-8801
         Flemingsburg, KY 41041
(Ord. 12-94-2, passed 12-19-94)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION CODE
§ 150.20 GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The following are the guidelines agreed upon by city officials and
members of various historical preservation committees to determine which
structures will be targeted:
      (1)   Buildings that have historic significance or a presence that is
unique to this community;
      (2)   Buildings that have some architectural significance;
      (3)   The cost of restoration would be reasonable and maintenance would
not be cost prohibitive;
      (4)   Structures that are located in an area where restoration would
enhance the community, or would be appreciated by the community so
counterproductive surroundings would not overwhelm the restoration efforts;
      (5)   Follow a procedure to identify buildings that could be razed in
order to contribute to the beauty and well-being of nearby restored properties,
without inconveniencing the community;
      (6)   Identification of the above vacant areas in terms of which of them
could be converted to green spaces, small parks, or paved parking lots;
      (7)   Encouragement of the preservation of old stone fences, stone
chimneys, and wrought iron fences and balconies;
      (8)   Creation of an historic atmosphere in the downtown area through the
following project interventions after utility lines and drains are installed:
brick sidewalks in the Renaissance area, uniform and improved professionally
printed signage and new or repaired awnings in front of businesses;
      (9)   Instructive signage on the major highway to direct travelers to
exits for downtown with directions to specific locations; and
      (10)   Continued reporting of various developments of the city and county
through the local radio station, the Flemingsburg Gazette newspaper and
neighboring community development brochures and news media.
   (B)   The guidelines summarized above are set forth in greater detail in the
document entitled “Historic District Design Guidelines for the City of
Flemingsburg, Kentucky, 2003,” which is incorporated herein by reference the
same as if set forth at length herein. Copies of this document shall be
available for inspection at City Hall located on South Main Cross Street in
Flemingsburg, Kentucky during regular business hours.
(Ord. 9-03-3, passed 9-22-03)   
ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS
§ 150.35 ELECTRICAL PERMITS REQUIRED.
   In the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky, an installer of electrical services,
new or replaced, electrical wiring, appliances, apparatus and devices shall
apply to the Flemingsburg Mayor's Office to get a permit to install the needed
electrical services or appliance. Permits shall be issued on an annual basis.
The Flemingsburg City Clerk shall be responsible for issuing said permit and
collecting the fee as set by the Flemingsburg City Council.
(Ord. 6-15-06, passed 6-29-15)
§ 150.36 ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS.
   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(11), the city shall contract with one or more
certified electrical inspectors to inspect all new and old replaced wiring and
the installation of electrical wiring, appliances, apparatus and devices to
assure that installation is performed in accordance with the State Building
Codes. As part of the contract the certified electrical inspector shall comply
with all State Building Code requirements, all conditions of the contract, and
all applicable, state and federal laws and regulation.
(Ord. 6-15-06, passed 6-29-15)
§ 150.37 FEE SCHEDULE FOR ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS.
RESIDENTIAL INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE
Single Family Dwelling/Multi-Family Dwelling/Mobile Home
Single Family Dwelling/Multi-Family Dwelling/Mobile Home
Temporary Service   $75
Rough-In Inspection $75
Final Inspection    $75
Renovations         $75
Additions           $75
Change Outs         $75
Re-Inspection       $75
 
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
 
Electrical Contract up to $50,000      $125 per trip
Electrical Contract $50,001 - $500,000 1.0% of total electrical contract
Electrical Contract $500,001 and up    3/4% of total electrical contract
 
(Ord. 6-15-06, passed 6-29-15)
§ 150.38 CONTRACT PROVISIONS.
   The city shall set conditions by contract with the electrical inspectors to
comply with State Building Codes and regulations all applicable local, state
and federal laws and regulations and further conditions which it deems
appropriate to protect the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 6-15-06, passed 6-29-15)
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT PERMIT
§ 150.50 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a rental unit permit
program in order to promote health and safety standards for rental properties,
to protect tenants from substandard housing, and to maintain neighborhood
stability. These standards relate to the condition, maintenance, and occupancy
of rental units and are intended to ensure that rental housing is safe,
sanitary, and suitable in accordance with all applicable laws.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all rental units within the city.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23)
§ 150.51 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter:
   “CITY.” The City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
   “CITY’S DESIGNEE.” The City of Flemingsburg Code Enforcement Officer or
other employee designated by the Mayor.
   “OCCUPANT.” Any lessee of a rental unit.
   “RENTAL UNIT PERMIT.” A permit issued by the city pursuant to this
subchapter.
   “RENTAL UNIT.” Means:
      (1)   Any residential space available for or being leased; or
      (2)   Any non-owner-occupied residential space whose owners do not live
on the premises.
   “SHORT-TERM RENTAL.” A residential space available for or being leased for a
period of less than one hundred eighty (180) days.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23)
§ 150.52 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a rental unit in the city shall apply for and obtain a
rental unit permit before leasing a rental unit to an occupant. The rental unit
permit shall be in addition to the occupational license tax requirements of the
city.
   (B)   Owners of short-term rentals are not required to obtain a rental unit
permit for their residential rental space. Short-term rentals are considered a
commercial business and must meet all applicable building, health, fire, and
related safety codes.
      (1)   In addition to all other requirements, utility bills for short-term
rentals shall remain the sole responsibility of the owner of the property and
shall not be transferred to an occupant as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   Owners of short-term rentals are solely responsible for compliance
with the International Property Maintenance Code, the International Residential
Code, Kentucky Building Code and/or other regulations adopted by the city.
   (C)   Application shall be made on a form furnished by the city and shall at
a minimum set forth the following information:
      (1)   The physical address of the rental unit;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the rental
unit; and
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner's agent, if
any, employed to manage or maintain the rental unit.
   (D)   After receipt of a complete application, the city's designee shall:
      (1)   Issue a rental unit permit for residential spaces that are
currently leased or occupied by a non-owner on October 15, 2023; or
      (2)   Complete a Rental Unit Permit Checklist approved by the City
Council on unoccupied residential spaces prior to the rental unit being leased
to an occupant.
   (E)   Every owner of a rental unit in the city shall notify the city within
fourteen (14) calender days of any changes in address or any other changes that
render the information supplied to the city in the rental unit permit
application inaccurate.
   (F)   There shall be no fee charged for a rental unit permit, but there
shall be a fee of five hundred dollars ($500) to reinstate any revoked rental
unit permit.
   (G)   A rental unit permit shall be temporarily suspended if water service
to a rental unit has been shut off or disconnected for more than thirty (30)
calendar days. This temporary suspension shall be lifted, without an additional
fee being imposed, once water service has been restored.
   (H)   A rental unit permit shall expire every three (3) years after issuance
or upon a change in occupant, whichever is sooner. A valid rental unit permit
shall be required at all times that a rental unit is leased to an occupant.
   (I)   City utility services shall not be turned on prior to issuance of a
rental unit permit. No occupant shall occupy a rental unit for which no rental
unit permit has been issued.
   (J)   A rental unit permit is nontransferable.
   (K)   A separate rental unit permit shall be required for each rental unit.
   (L)   No rental unit permit shall be issued regarding a rental unit for
which there are delinquent city property taxes or assessments, unpaid city
utility bills, unpaid city fines, or unpaid city liens.
   (M)   Beginning December 16, 2023, a Rental Unit Permit Checklist shall be
completed by the city's designees:
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a rental unit permit;
      (2)   Prior to revoked rental unit permit being reissued; or
      (3)   Prior to a temporarily suspended rental unit permit being
reinstated.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53 ONGOING REQUIREMENTS OF PERMITTEES.
   Every permittee shall at all times ensure compliance with the following
minimum requirements:
   (A)   No structure may exceed the maximum permitted number of rental units.
   (B)   No rental unit may be overcrowded or illegally occupied in violation
of any local, state, or federal fire, zoning, property maintenance, building
code, or other law.
   (C)   Every permittee shall maintain a current register of tenants with a
lawful right to occupy any rental unit.
   (D)   All utility bills, assessments, and taxes shall be timely paid on
every rental unit.
   (E)   The city's designee shall be permitted to inspect every rental unit
that is the subject of a complaint regarding an alleged violation of any local,
state, or federal fire, zoning, property maintenance, building code, or other
law.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54 RETROACTIVE APPLICATION; LANDLORD-TENANT RELATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. All residential rental and non-owner occupied
properties shall conform to the requirements of this subchapter irrespective of
when such building or premises was constructed, altered or repaired. Every
owner of a rental unit shall apply for a rental unit permit within sixty (60)
days of the passage of this subchapter.
   (B)   Landlord-tenant relations. Nothing in this subchapter or its
enforcement shall be construed in any way to affect landlord-tenant relations
nor shall relieve the tenant of any implied contractual obligations with the
landlord.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.55 EFFECT OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the city's designee determines that any requirement of this chapter
has been violated, the city's designee who qualifies as a code enforcement
officer pursuant to KRS 65.8805(4) shall issue a citation to the owner of the
rental unit. Said citation may be served by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (A) to (C) of this section is
not possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   Whenever a citation is issued, the city's designee shall also cause a
notice to the tenant(s) to be prominently posted on the rental unit indicating
that the tenant(s) may be required to vacate the rental unit if compliance is
not established. No person other than the city's designee may remove the notice
posted on the rental unit.
   (C)   When a rental unit is condemned, any rental unit permit issued
regarding the condemned rental unit is automatically revoked.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23) Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.56 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Code Enforcement
Board.
(Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more
than $100, imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
150.04 or §
150.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500 for each
offense.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.56 is expressly made a violation subject to a criminal fine. Any person
violating any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.56 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than twenty-
five dollars ($25) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS Ch. 65, a violation of any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.56 is expressly made a civil offense subject to a civil fine. Any person
violating any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.56 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than twenty-
five dollars ($25) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The city shall be entitled to pursue a criminal fine, civil fine,
or both, and the pursuit of one shall not be a prerequisite for pursuing the
other.
      (4)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.56.
(Am. Ord. 10-23-1, passed 10-9-23)
CHAPTER 151: DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
Section
   
151.01   Designation of downtown business district
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION OF DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 103.200(n), it is hereby determined,
declared, ordered, and ordained that the corporate boundaries from time to time
of the city shall henceforth be designated as the "downtown business district"
of the city.
(Ord. 8-85-1, passed 8-12-85)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Purpose, objectives
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.06   Basis for establishing areas of special hazard
   
152.07   Establishment of development permit
   
152.08   Compliance
   
152.09   Abrogation; greater restrictions
   
152.10   Interpretation
   
152.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
152.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning With the
letter ‘A’
   
152.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
152.60   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KR 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of City of Flemingsburg are subject to periodic
inundation which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the
location in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to
flooding by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood height or velocity;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areascaused by flooding;
      (7)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in
a Special Flood Hazard Area; and
      (8)   Ensure that those who occupy a Special Flood Hazard Area assume
responsibility for their actions. Therefore, the City of Flemingsburg,
Kentucky, adopts this Floodplain Management Ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   “A ZONE.” Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).” A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principle structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   “ACCESSORY USE.” A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which
is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls, is new construction.
   “A1-30 AND AE ZONES.” Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood. Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   “AH ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between 1
and 3 feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   “AO ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) Flood depths are
shown.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the floodplain
administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   “AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES.” Special Flood Hazard
Areas (SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited
flood protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a
100-year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete
these areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding
sources.
   “A99 ZONE.” That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is
to be protected from the 100-year flood by a Federal flood protection system
under construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.” A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to
three feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “B AND X ZONES (SHADED).” Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than 1 square mile, and areas protected
by levees from the base flood.
   “BASE FLOOD.” A flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceededin any given year (also called the “100-year flood”). Base flood is the
term used throughout this chapter.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and
AR/AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a 1 -percent or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   “BASEMENT.” That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   “BUILDING.” A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for structure.
   “C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES.” Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   “COMMUNITY.” A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   “COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).” A program developed by the Federal
Insurance Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the
Regular Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures for protection from flooding.
   “COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA).” An area that has been determined by
the Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   “D ZONE.” An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   “ELEVATED STRUCTURE.” A non-basement structure built to have the lowest
floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   “EMERGENCY PROGRAM.” The initial phase under which a community participates
in the NFIP, intended to provide a fust layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   “ENCLOSURE.” That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.” Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. “Existing construction” may also be referred
to as “Existing structures”.
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the City of
Flemingsburg based on specific technical base flood elevation data which
established the area of special flood hazards.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.” The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   “FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.”
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See “Mudslides”.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See “flood-
related erosion”.
   “FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).” A map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   “FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).” A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.” The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN” or “FLOOD-PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   “FLOODPROOFING.” Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the “regulatory floodway”.
   “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   “FREEBOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   “FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.” As related in §
152.60  of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud
on or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City
Council will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty to
one hundred years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the
base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of
damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a
whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that
those increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may
purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage,
and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY.” A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   “GOVERNING BODY.” The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   “HAZARD POTENTIAL.” The possible adverse incremental consequences that
result from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).”
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with State or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   “KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250 - PLANS FOR DAM, LEVEES AND THE LIKE TO BE
APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED BY CABINET -(ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION
CABINET).”
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC’s include the following
categories:
      (1)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” A revision based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A
LOMA amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property
is not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F).” A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   “LEVEE.” A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “LEVEE SYSTEM.”
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a Federal or
State agency, an agency created by Federal or State law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   “LIMITED STORAGE.” An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed areaincluding
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an areaother than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property. The term “manufactured home” does not
include a “recreational vehicle” (see Recreational Vehicle).
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MAP.” The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   “MAP PANEL NUMBER.” The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel.
The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first
revision.)
   “MARKET VALUE.” The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   “MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
costs of disaster response and recovery.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW).” Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.” The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA.” An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   “NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).” The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   “NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).” As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM’S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of City of Flemingsburg’s floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of City of Flemingsburg’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   “NON-RESIDENTIAL.” Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than 6 months duration.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).” As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’S and Digitally Referenced FIRM’S
(DFIRM’s). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   “ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.” (100-Year Flood - see BASE FLOOD). The flood that
has a 1-percent or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year
flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26-percent chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   “PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.” A community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   “PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   “POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   “PROBATION.” A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   “PROGRAM DEFICIENCY.” A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.” Anything which is injurious to safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULAR PROGRAM.” The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   “REMEDY A VIOLATION.” The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with State or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   “REPAIR.” The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing
structure.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.” Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a 10-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $ 1000.00 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   “RIVERINE.” Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   “SECTION 1316.” That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   “SHEET FLOW AREA.” See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).” That portion of the floodplain subject
to inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” (Includes substantial improvement and other
proposed new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   “STRUCTURE.” A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   “SUBDIVISION.” Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots
or parcels.
   “SUBROGATION.” An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.”  
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.”  
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   “SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.”
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   “SUSPENSION.” Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   “UTILITIES.” Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   “VARIANCE.” Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   “VIOLATION.” Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.” The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   “WATERSHED.” All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   “X ZONE.” The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones © zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   “ZONE.” A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.05 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council of City of Flemingsburg from available technical studies,
historical information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within
the jurisdiction of the City Council ofCity of Flemingsburg which may be
subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of City of
Flemingsburg.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Fleming County,
dated May 20, 2010 with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by City of
Flemingsburg, and for those land areas acquired by City of Flemingsburg through
annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of City of Flemingsburg and are on file and available for
review by the public during regular business hours at Flemingsburg City Hall.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See § 152.26 for
instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection withconditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall
prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of City of
Flemingsburg, any officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the
Federal Insurance Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council of City of Flemingsburg hereby appoints the Mayor or
designee to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.06. Application for a Development Permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure will meet
the flood-proofing criteria in §
152.41(B) and §
152.43(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
State a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In AE, Al-30, AH, and A
zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
Federal or State law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, “adversely
affects” means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.06, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.40 through
152.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse; and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
152.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in § 152.60(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.06, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.41(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the department of law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days from the date of its issuance
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.06, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than at or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) of this section.
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit:
The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
(0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which
represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locationsspecified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   (a)   In all other Zones, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)    Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) of this section or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork elevated no lower than at or above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.26(A)(3);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) of this
section; or
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either;
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
      (5)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.06, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.06, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles; and
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.06.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.06, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (1 - 3'), where
a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B).
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER ‘A’.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated ‘A’
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, see §
152.99
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.60 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature Of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council of City of
Flemingsburg hereby establishes an Appeal Board consisting of all the members
of the City Council.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals and variance procedures. In passing upon such applications,
the Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. “Minimum necessary” means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Councilneed not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “Public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of divisions (D)(1)
through (11) of this section are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not
create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $ 100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Fleming County Clerk and shall be recorded
in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (K)   No Impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10) Penalty, §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for theviolation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this ordnance
and/or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administratorhas reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven (7) days of the date the
citation is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set
forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the
citation is issued does not respond to the citation within seven (7) days, that
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $500.00 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 3-10-4, passed 3-24-10)
CHAPTER 153: HOUSING AND UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
   
153.02   Enforcement
   
153.03   Fees
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of establishing uniform rules and regulations there is
hereby adopted that certain Housing and Unsafe Buildings Code known as the
Housing and Unsafe Buildings Code for Kentucky Communities, Model Ordinance
101-A, September 1962, promulgated by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, of which
not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer and is available for public inspection during normal business
hours. The Housing and Unsafe Buildings Code and all subsequent revisions and
amendments thereto is hereby adopted and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein. The provisions thereof
shall be controlled in the maintenance of minimum standards of occupancy and
maintenance for buildings and for the repair, improvement, vacation, and
demolition of unfit and unsafe houses used as dwellings and for other uses.
(Ord. , passed 7-17-63)
§ 153.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. , passed 7-17-63)
§ 153.03 FEES.
   An appropriate schedule of fees shall be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. , passed 7-17-63)
Cross-reference:
   Blighted and Deteriorated Properties, see
Ch. 97
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE DEVELOPMENT
Section
Subdivision Regulations
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
Site Development Standards
   
154.10   Adoption by reference; copies
   
154.11   Application
   
154.12   Injunctive powers of Planning Commission
   
154.13   Appeals
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
35.45 -
35.50
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations as promulgated by the Planning Commission and
adopted by that body on march 3, 1981, and as amended with respect to fees on
April 2, 1981, and titled Flemingsburg Subdivision Regulations, are formally
adopted by the City Council and made a part of this code of ordinances as fully
as if set forth herein. The regulations are to be used for all future
development within the city and within a two-mile radium outside the city
limits.
(Ord. 81- , passed 4-27-81)
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.10 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE; COPIES.
   The Site Development Standards as promulgated by the Planning Commission
under date of February 1982, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
as fully as if set forth herein, as prepared by the Buffalo Trace Area
Development District, and amended by the Planning Commission. Copies of the
Site Development Standards are available for inspection at City Hall, or may be
obtained at the Mayor's office by any interested party at a cost of $5 per
copy.
(Ord. 82- , passed 5-3-82)
§ 154.11 APPLICATION.
   The Site Development Standards shall effect all land development within the
city limits.
(Ord. 82- , passed 5-3-82)
§ 154.12 INJUNCTIVE POWERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall have the power to apply for an Injunction
against any type of development construction or excavation by any developer or
landowner when the development standards have been violated.
(Ord. 82- , passed 5-3-82)
§ 154.13 APPEALS.
   A decision or ruling of the Planning Commission concerning adopted site
development standards may be appealed to the Fleming Circuit Court. Such an
appeal must be filed within 30 days after the final action of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 82- , passed 5-23-82)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of the development
standards adopted in §
154.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $10 but no more than $500 for each conviction.
(Ord. 82- , passed 5-3-82)
CHAPTER 155: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
§ 155.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the office
of the City Clerk of the City of Flemingsburg, Kentucky, and one (1) copy of
which is on file in the office of the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City of
Flemingsburg, Kentucky, both offices being located in City Hall, at 140 West
Electric Avenue, Flemingsburg, Kentucky 41041, and being marked and designated
as the International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the
International Code Council and as currently adopted by the State of Kentucky,
be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of
Flemingsburg, in the State of Kentucky for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property Maintenance Code on
file in the office of the City of Flemingsburg are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) of this
section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised to insert in the elective
spaces:
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised to insert in the elective
spaces:
      (1)   Section 101.1: City of Flemingsburg
      (2)   Section 103.5:
         a)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this
subsection shall apply; however, the board may waive all or any portion of a
penalty for an uncontested violation, if in its discretion, the board
determines that such waiver will promote compliance with the ordinance in
issue.
 
Violation                     1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Unsafe & Unfit Structure Code $100.00     $125.00     $150.00
Weeds, Etc.                   $10.00      $25.00      $50.00
 
         b)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the code board
is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion
of the code board:
 
Violation                     1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Unsafe & Unfit Structure Code $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Weeds, Etc.                   $50.00      $75.00      $100.00
 
      (3)   Section 302.4: grass and weeds shall not exceed twelve (12") inches
in height*
            * In areas zoned agricultural within the city limits, the height of
grass or weeds shall not exceed twenty-four (24") inches
      (4)   Section 304.14: from April 1st through and to October 31st
      (5)   Section 602.3: from October 1st through and to April 30th
      (6)   Section 602.4: from October 1st through and to April 30th
(Ord. 5-11-1, passed 5-9-11; Am. Ord. 9-17-3, passed 9-12-17)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption of Zoning Code
§ 156.01 ADOPTION OF ZONING CODE.
   The "City of Flemingsburg - Zoning Ordinance," dated July 2001 and approved
by the Flemingsburg Planning Commission is hereby adopted as the Zoning Code
for the City of Flemingsburg. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the Zoning Code are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, together
with future additions, insertions, deletions, and changes.
(Ord. 7-01-1, passed 8-20-01; Am. Ord. 6-02-1, passed 6-25-02)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.     ACCEPTANCES
   
II.     ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
   
III.    INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
   
IV.    REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
V.    STREET NAMES
   
VI.    PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   
VII.    FRANCHISES
   
VIII.    REPEALED ORDINANCES
   
IX.     AD VALOREM TAX RATES
TABLE I. ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
78-1     9-13-78 Accepting the southernmost 453 feet of the street known as
                 Pioneer Trace Street in Indian Fields Subdivision
                
 
TABLE II. ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.    Date Description
No.
             Annexing certain territory lying west of the Belmont Subdivision from its
             present corporate limits along Kentucky State Highway No. 32, on the south
        8- - side thereof, beginning at a point in the westernmost line of the existing
       61   city limits, said line being the west right-of-way line of the undeveloped
             portion of Lakepoint Drive, Belmont Subdivision, and this line also being
             the common line with W.H. Shrout property, said beginning point being in
             the centerline of Kentucky State Highway No. 32.
        8-   Annexing certain territory enclosing 23-1/2 acres, beginning at a point in
       10-  the westernmost line of the existing city limits, said line being the west
        61   right-of-way line of Lakepoint Drive, Lakewood Subdivision, and said point
             of beginning being in the centerline of Kentucky State Highway No. 32.
             Annexing certain territory enclosing 12 acres more or less, beginning at a
        8-   point in the westernmost line of the existing city limits, said line being
       10-  the west right-of-way line of the undeveloped portion of Lakepoint Drive,
        61   Belmont Subdivision, and this line also being the common line with W.H.
             Shrout property, said beginning point being in the centerline of Kentucky
             State Highway No. 32.
        9-   Annexing a certain parcel of territory containing 97.33 acres, beginning
       13-  at a corner post 200 feet in the rear of Crest Avenue of the Armstrong
        62   Addition.
        1-7- Detaching certain territory beginning in the center of the old railroad
       63   tract at a point where the properties of the Farmers Stock Yards, Kentucky
             State Highway Department, and J.B. Lathram meet.
        3-4- Annexing certain territory lying in the northeast corporate limits of the
       63   city, beginning at the corner of the east end and original line of
             Flemingsburg that is back of Mr. Victor Rucker's house.
        6-1- Annexing certain territory lying on the north and south sides of Kentucky
       64   Highway No. 32, west of the present corporate limits of the city,
             beginning at the northeast corner of Noel Story's lot.
             Annexing certain territory lying in the south and southwest corporate
        12-  limits of the city, beginning at a point 360 feet west of the center of
65-5    -65  the Craintown Road and 350 feet south of the center of Kentucky Highway
             No. 32 at the present corporate limits boundary and thence in a general
             southerly direction.
             Annexing certain territory lying generally to the northeast of the present
        12-  corporate limits of the city, and encompassing land near Fox Springs
10-80   18-  Avenue, Kentucky Highway 57 toward Mt. Carmel, and over to the south side
        80   of Cherry Grove Road, beginning at a four foot iron rod painted orange in
             a fence line 2 feet southwest of the fence corner post at the northeast
             corner of the U.S. Shoe property on Rucker Street in Flemingsburg.
             Annexing certain territory lying generally between the South Ridge Park
        1-   Subdivision and Ridgeway Park Limited, beginning at a point at the
1-84-1  16-  intersection of the south right-of-way line of High Street (also known as
        84   Warren Lane) and the west right-of-way line of Greenway Drive, said point
             also being in the north boundary line of Ridgeway Park limited.
             Annexing certain territory containing 153.679 acres, lying generally
             between the Mt. Sterling Road and the Elizaville Road and inside the outer
7-84-9  7-9- right-of-way of the Flemingsburg bypass connecting said roads and more
        84   particularly described as beginning at a point in the existing city limits
             line and the center of Kentucky Highway No. 11 (the Flemingsburg-Mt.
             Sterling Road); thence with the existing city limits line south.
        8-   Annexing certain territory containing designated parcels located on the
8-91-1  30-  south side of Kentucky Highway 11; certain parcels located east and west
        91   of Kentucky Highway 11; and certain parcels located northeast of the
             intersection of Mt. Sterling Road and the bypass.
10-93-1 10-  Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the northern side of By-
        4-93 Pass 32 in Fleming County, Kentucky.
        12-  Annexing property located in the vicinity of the intersection of the
12-95-1 22-  Flemingsburg By-Pass and the Mt. Sterling Road (Kentucky Highway #11) and
        95   on the south side of Bypass #32.
        1-   Annexing certain parcel of real estate located at the intersection of
1-96-1  22-  Kentucky Highway 32 (Elizaville Road) and By-Pass 32.
        96
        9-   Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the eastern side of
09-01-4 17-  Kentucky Highway No.11.
        01
        11-  Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the north side of
11-02-1 11-  Flemingsburg By-Pass 32 and known as “Kibler Lumber.”
        02
        11-  Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the east side of
11-02-2 11-  Kentucky Highway No. 11 and known as “Southgate Apartments.”
        02
        11-  Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the south side of
11-02-3 11-  Flemingsburg By-Pass 32 and known as “Wells Building.”
        02
12-02-1 12-  Annexing certain parcel of real estate located on the north side of
        9-02 Kentucky Highway No. 587, the Cherry Grove Road.
        6-8- Annexing land located on the Maysville road just north of the current city
6-09-1  09   limits and owned by Cheap Chevrolet Company, Doyle Mobile Homes, Inc. and
             Peoples Bank of Kentucky.
        7-   Annexing land located on the east side of Kentucky Highway 11 near the
7-16-1  11-  south city limits of Flemingsburg in Fleming County, Kentucky and being a
        16   certain lot designated as Lot 23 and owned by Herbert Purvis and Hulda
             Faye Purvis, and Larry T. Watson.
        2-   Annexing a certain tract of land located in Mallard heights, Flemingsburg,
2-18-1  12-  Fleming County, Kentucky. Being a part of the property described in Deed
        18   Book 153, Page 448 and owned by Ashley Alderman and Mary L. Alderman.
             Annexing the real property described as: Beginning at a point in west
             right-of-way line of the Flemingsburg By-Pass; said point being located S
             12 deg. 51'03" W 525.65 feet from the right-of-way corner 95.00 feet left
             of station 261 + 06.72 and corner between the property owned by R.W. Crain
2-18-   2-   and the property owned by James A. Hurd and J.B. Shannon; thence with the
2    12-  right-of-way of the Flemingsburg By-Pass S 12 deg. 51'03" W 202.50 feet;
        18   thence S 9 deg. 45'01" W 53.58 feet; thence leaving the right-of-way line
             N 77 deg. 08'57" W 220.90 feet; thence N 12 deg. 51'03" E 256.00 feet;
             thence S 77 deg. 08'57" E 218.    feet to the beginning and containing
             approximately 1.28 acres and owned by the Fleming County Public Health
             Taxing District.
            
 
TABLE III. INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
5-87-2   5-18-87 Approves an interlocal agreement to provide self-insurance
                 subject to approval of Attorney General.
11-94-3  11-7-94 Establishing a Code of Ethical Conduct for the County of
                 Fleming, City of Flemingsburg, and the City of Ewing.
                 Approves an interlocal agreement with the county regarding the
2-05-1   2-14-05 dispatch of emergency services, to be governed by a joint
                 board comprised of appointees by the city, county and
                 emergency services.
                 Adopting the interlocal agreement between the city and the
7-07-1   7-23-07 County of Fleming regarding the dispatch of emergency
                 services, to be governed by a joint board comprised or
                 appointees by the city, county and emergency services.
                 Approving entry but the city into an agreement to form and
1-09-2   1-19-09 operate a planning unit, pursuant to KRS Chapter 100, with the
                 County of Fleming and the City of Ewing.
                
 
TABLE IV. REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
                Adopting a lease agreement between the Fleming County Fiscal
81-6     9- -81 Court and the city, and Licking Valley Community Action, Inc.
                for the Senior Citizens Recreational and Nutritional Center
               
   
TABLE V. STREET NAMES
 
Ord. Date Description
No.
    10-  Officially naming the following streets:
     5-59
        (1)    The street leading from Main Street to Elm Street is Randall Street
        (2)    The street leading from the intersection of Elm Street northeast via
          the residence property of Les Arnold is Fountain Street
        (3)    The street leading from East Water Street northeast into the Foster
          Addition is Foster Street
         
 
TABLE VI. PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Ord. No Date Description
Ord. No Date     Description
4-90-4  4-16-90  Amends position descriptions for (1) Chief of Police, and (2)
                 Wastewater Plant Operator.
4-90-4  4-16-90  Created position description for Chief Operator-Wastewater
                 Treatment Plant.
12-91-1 12-2-91  Creating a new position within the Police Department known as
                 Assistant Chief.
5-92-2  5-4-92   Amending the position description of Assistant Streets and
                 Sanitation Supervisor.
5-92-3  5-4-92   Creating the position of Code Enforcement Officer.
7-93-1  7-12-93  Creating the position of Code Enforcement Officer.
                 Amending personnel policies by removing "employment-at-will"
12-93-3 12-13-93 provisions and inserting requirement of termination for "just
                 cause" only.
                 Amending and adding language to personnel policies and
9-96-1  9-18-96  procedures regarding job descriptions of Chief of Police,
                 Police Officer, Police Officer (Recruit) and Assistant Police
                 Chief.
1-00-1  - -      Adopting guidelines and limits on travel expenditures by city
                 employees.
6-01-2  6-11-01  Amending certain sections of personnel policies and
                 procedures.
6-03-1  6-9-03   Amending certain sections of personnel policies and procedures
                 to set pay scale for city employees.
9-05-2  9-12-05  Amending the personnel policies and procedures to set pay
                 scale for city employees (Repealing Ord. 6-03-1).
3-01-18 3-12-18  Amending the personnel policies and procedures to set
                 compensation for years of service for city employees.
12-21-1 12-21-21 Amending Ordinance 03-01-18, employee compensation ordinance.
12-21-3 12-22-21 Amending Ordinance 12-21-1, fixing the authorized employment
                 and compensation schedule of employees.
                
 
TABLE VII. FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.    Date    Description
No.
8-94-1  8-1-94  Awarding to Kentucky Utilities Company a 20-year electric utility franchise
                for the use of the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city.
                Creating a franchise for erection, laying and maintenance of electric
5-04-1  5-24-04 facilities, for furnishing and selling electricity, and providing for the
                sale of the franchise.
6-05-1  6 – -0Creating a franchise not to exceed ten years for a cable television system.
6-05-7  6-24-05 Creating a non-exclusive telephone franchise for the use of city streets
                and highways and other public right-of-ways.
2-14-04 2-10-14 Creating an exclusive electric franchise for the use of the city’s public
                rights-of-way.
4-15-   4-28-15 Establishing a five-year non-exclusive franchise for the operation and
1            maintenance of cable services.
6-15-04 6-8-15  Creating a non-exclusive electric utility franchise for the use of city
                streets, highways, and other public roads and rights-of-way.
09-15-  9-14-15 Creating an exclusive electric franchise for the use of the city’s public
02              right-of-way.
8-23-1  8-14-23 Awarding a franchise for the collection of solid waste.
               
 
TABLE VIII. REPEALED ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
1-85-1   1-7-85   Repealed by Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07
6-88-2   6-8-1988 Repealed by Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07
12-89-2  12-27-89 Repealed by Ord. 12-93-2, passed 12-13-93
1-91-1   1-14-91  Repealed by Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94
1-91-2   1-14-91  Repealed by Ord. 12-93-1, passed 12-6-93
1-91-1   1-14-91  Repealed by Ord. 12-93-2, passed 12-13-93
7-93-2   7-12-93  Repealed by Ord. 12-93-2, passed 12-13-93
12-93-2  12-13-93 Repealed by Ord. 3-94-1, passed 3-7-94
5-82-1   5-24-82  Repealed by Ord. 9-95-4, passed 9-25-95
9-91-4   10-7-91  Repealed by Ord. 9-95-4, passed 9-25-85
4-90-1   4-16-90  Repealed by Ord. 8-95-1, passed 8-15-95
65-1     - -      Repealed by Ord. 12-03-1, passed 12-15-03
65-2     - -      Repealed by Ord. 12-03-1, passed 12-15-03
65-2A    - -      Repealed by Ord. 12-03-1, passed 12-15-03
12-85-1  12-16-85 Repealed by Ord. 12-03-1, passed 12-15-03
5-99-1   - -      Repealed by Ord. 6-03-1, passed 6-9-03
3-01-1   3-14-01  Repealed by Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07
6-01-2   6-11-01  Repealed by Ord. 6-03-1, passed 6-9-03
12-03-1  12-15-03 Repealed by Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07
7-05-1   7-14-05  Repealed by Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-07
3-07-1   3-12-07  Repealed by Ord. 11-07-1, passed 11-12-07
6-92-1   6-4-92   Repealed by Ord. 9-12-1, passed 9-10-12
5-88-1   5-23-88  Repealed by Ord. 2-21-2, passed 2-17-21
5-92-1   5-4-92   Repealed by Ord. 2-21-2, passed 2-17-21
                 
 
TABLE IX. AD VALOREM TAX RATES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. Date  Description
No.
9-   9-12- Ad Valorem tax rates as of Jan. 1, 1996:
96-3 96
         (1)   Real Estate at $0.2012 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.2012 per $100.00 assessed valuation
9-   9-12- Ad Valorem tax rates as of Jan. 1, 1997:
96-4 96
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-22- Ad Valorem tax rates as of Jan. 1, 1997:
97-1 97
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1934 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1934 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1934 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-22- Ad Valorem tax rates as of Jan. 1, 1998:
97-2 97
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-28- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 1999, as follows:
98-1 98
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
10-  10-5- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 1998, as follows:
98-1 98
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1878 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1878 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1878 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-14- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2000, as follows:
99-1 99
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-14- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 1999, as follows:
99-2 99
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1847 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1847 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1847 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-5-  Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2001, as follows:
00-1 00
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-18- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2000, as follows:
00-2 00
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1781 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal Property at $0.1781 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1781 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-17- Ad Valorem tax rate as of January 1, 2002, as follows:
01-1 01
9-   9-17- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2001, as follows:
01-2 01
         (1)   Real estate at $0.17444 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.17444 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1744 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-16- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2003, as follows:
02-1 02
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-16- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2002, as follows:
02-2 02
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1714 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1714 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1714 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-12- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2003, as follows:
03-1 03
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-12- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2003, as follows:
03-2 03
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1642 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1642 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1642 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-13- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2004, as follows:
04-1 04
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1566 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1566 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1566 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-13- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2005, as follows:
04-2 04
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
6-   6-24- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2005 as follows:
05-6 05
         (1)   Abandoned urban property at $0.75 per $100.00 of assessed
           valuation.
9-   9-12- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2006, as follows:
05-1 05
         (1)   Motor vehicles at $0.1977 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
9-   9-21- Ad Valorem tax rates as of January 1, 2006, as follows:
05-3 05
         (1)   Real estate at $0.1532 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (2)   Personal property at $0.1532 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (3)   Inventory at $0.1532 per $100.00 assessed valuation.
         (4)   Abandoned urban property at $0.7500 per $100.00 of assessed
           valuation.
          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.48
                        31.01(A),
                        31.36(D),
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.37(D),
                        31.38(D),
                        31.39(D),
                        35.61(C)
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.02(A)
6.050                   32.48
6.955 - 6.975           33.04(D), (F)
Ch. 13A                 93.02
Ch. 13B                 115.036 ,
                        115.054
16.220                  72.22
18A.225(2)              113.03
Ch. 31                  34.12
41.240                  33.34
43.050                  33.04
Ch. 45A                 34.12,
                        34A.05
45A.345 - 45A.460       33.45
Ch. 56                  34.12,
                        34A.05
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(6)               34A.01
61.810                  34A.05
61.815                  34A.06
61.820                  34A.07
61.823                  34A.08
61.823(2) - (4)         91.15
61.870 - 61.882         31.36(B)
61.870 (1), (3)         34.01
61.870(10)(a) - (g)     34.05
61.872(1)               34.05(B)
61.872(2)               34.05(A)
61.872(3)               34.05(C)
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.872 - 61.884         38.09
61.874(1)               34.05(C)
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.12
61.878(1)(i)            34A.05
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.12
61.884                  34.11
62.060                  31.01(B)
Ch. 64                  31.61
Ch. 65                  35.85,
                        150.99
65.007                  35.131
65.120                  72.01
65.870                  Ch.136
65.8801 - 65.8839       35.101,
                        35.113
65.8805(4)              150.55
65.8815(5)              35.104
Ch. 78               31.65
80.020 et seq.          35.15
80.020                  35.15
80.030                  35.16
80.040(1)(a)            35.17
80.060                  35.18
                        71.75,
82.082                  92.015,
                        152.01
Ch.83A                  31.20(A)
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(11)             10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02(B)
83A.040                 33.99
83A.040(1),(2)          31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21(C)(1)
83A.040(3),(4)          32.01
83A.040(3)              31.21(C)(2)
83A.040(5)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(6)              31.03
83A.040(7)              31.21(C)(3),
                        32.02(A)(1)
83A.040(8)              31.21(C)(4),
                        32.02(A)(2)
83A.045(2)(b)(1)        31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060                 31.36 (B)
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             31.36(B),
                        32.45
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 71.75
83A.065(2)              150.99
83A.070                 31.02
83A.070(1)              31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.03,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085                 31.36
83A.130                 31.21
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02(A)
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(11)             32.03(A),
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03(B),(C)
83A.130(13)             32.03(D)
83A.165                 31.20(A)(1)
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(7)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03,
                        33.035
91A.030(7)              33.035
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
91A.350 et seq.         35.130
91A.350 - 91A.390       35.132
91A.360                 35.131
91A.390(2)              36.35
97.035                  96.01
Ch.100                  35.45(A),
                        T.S.O. III
100.131                 35.45
100.133                 35.46
100.141                 35.46
100.143                 35.47
100.153                 35.48
103.200(n)              151.01(B)
Chs. 116-121            31.20(A)
Ch. 118                 31.20
131.010(6)              36.16
131.190                 34.12
Ch. 136                 36.15
136.120                 110.03
Ch. 151                 152.04
151.250                 152.05
Ch. 154A                115.053
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2)              91.17
174.100(3)              91.18
174.100(4)              91.19
174.100(5)              91.20
177.043                 91.07
186.020                 72.22,
                        75.05
186.050                 75.05
186A.145                72.22
186A.190                72.22
Ch. 189                 75.04
189.010                 98.02
189.010(19)             70.01
189.020                 71.27
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.378                 71.30,
                        71.99(C)
189.378(1)              70.01
189.390                 71.75
189.450(5)-(7)          72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.635(9)(b)(1)a. - e. 34.01
189.820                 75.03
189.930                 71.26
189.993(8)              71.99(B)
Ch. 198B                150.03
198B(5)                 150.05
198B.060(8)             150.03
198B.060(11)            150.36
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)(1)
Ch. 218A                115.053
Ch. 218B                118.06
218B.010                118.02
218B.130                118.03
224.20-720              75.05
224.30 et seq.          98.01
224.710 et seq.         98.01
226.010                 112.06
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.05
227.700                 93.01(A)
227.702                 93.01(B)
227.704                 93.01(C)
227.706                 93.01(D)
227.708                 93.01(E)
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.02
227.720                 93.03
227.730                 93.04
227.740                 93.04
227.750                 93.05
227.990(1)              150.99(A)(2)
227.990(4)              93.99(A)
Ch. 238                 115.053
                        115.002,
                        115.003,
                        115.005,
Ch. 241 - 244           115.018,
                        115.035,
                        115.053,
                        115.105
241.010(50)             115.095
241.100                 115.035
241.160                 115.035
241.170                 115.035
241.200                 115.056
242.1244                115.017
Ch. 243                 110.03,
                        115.116
243.036                 115.053
243.060                 115.053
                        115.015,
243.070                 115.021,
                        115.053
243.075                 115.021
243.260                 115.017
243.450                 115.056
243.480                 115.999
243.490                 115.053,
                        115.056
243.500                 115.056
243.550                 115.054
243.600                 115.053
243.610                 115.053
243.850                 115.057
243.895                 115.087
244.050                 115.116
244.085                 115.105
244.087                 115.105
244.120                 115.095
244.130                 115.155
Ch. 258                 90.01
281.605(12)             72.22
281.920                 72.22
281.926                 72.22
281.928                 72.22
281.928(1)              72.22
281.932                 72.22
281.936                 72.22
304.39-080              75.03
318.990                 150.99(A)(3)
Ch. 337                 31.65
344.010                 95.01
344.230(3)              95.06(B)
344.320                 95.06
344.330                 95.06
344.340                 95.07
344.350                 95.11
344.360                 95.02(A)
344.362                 95.02(C)
344.365                 95.02(B)
344.370                 95.03(A)
344.375                 95.05
344.380                 95.04
344.385                 95.08
344.400                 95.03(B)
344.450                 95.09
344.500                 95.10
Ch. 350                 152.04
359.230                 72.22
367.4901                150.10
367.4903(4)             150.11
376.275                 72.22
376.275(1)-(4)          72.22
                        32.43(A),
Ch. 424                 33.04,
                        33.15,
                        115.045
424.120                 33.04
424.170                 115.045
424.220                 33.04
424.220 (6) (b)         33.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
506.010                 Ch. 138
506.030                 Ch. 138
506.040                 Ch. 138
506.080                 Ch. 138
506.120                 Ch. 138
Ch. 507                 114.04
507.020                 Ch. 130
507.030                 Ch. 130
507.040                 Ch. 130
507.050                 Ch. 130
Ch. 508                 114.04
508.010                 Ch. 130
508.020                 Ch. 130
508.025                 Ch. 130
508.030                 Ch. 130
508.040                 Ch. 130
508.050                 Ch. 130
508.060                 Ch. 130
508.070                 Ch. 130
508.080                 Ch. 130
508.100                 Ch. 130
508.110                 Ch. 130
508.120                 Ch. 130
508.140                 Ch. 130
508.150                 Ch. 130
509.020                 Ch. 130
509.030                 Ch. 130
509.040                 Ch. 130
509.070                 Ch. 130
509.080                 Ch. 130
510.040                 Ch. 137
510.050                 Ch. 137
510.060                 Ch. 137
510.070                 Ch. 137
510.080                 Ch. 137
510.090                 Ch. 137
510.100                 Ch. 137
510.110                 Ch. 137
510.120                 Ch. 137
510.130                 Ch. 137
510.140                 Ch. 137
510.150                 Ch. 137
511.020                 Ch. 132
511.030                 Ch. 132
511.040                 Ch. 132
511.050                 Ch. 132
511.060                 Ch. 132
511.070                 Ch. 132
                        115.117,
511.080                 Ch. 132,
                        141.02
512.020                 Ch. 132
512.030                 Ch. 132
512.050                 Ch. 132
512.060                 Ch. 132
512.070                 Ch. 132
512.080                 Ch. 132
513.020                 Ch. 132
513.030                 Ch. 132
513.040                 Ch. 132
513.060                 Ch. 132
514.030                 Ch. 132
514.040                 Ch. 132
514.050                 Ch. 132
514.060                 Ch. 132
514.065                 Ch. 132
514.070                 Ch. 132
514.080                 Ch. 132
514.090                 Ch. 132
514.100                 Ch. 132
514.110                 Ch. 132
514.120                 Ch. 132
514.140                 Ch. 132
514.150                 Ch. 132
515.020                 Ch. 132
515.030                 Ch. 132
516.020                 Ch. 132
516.030                 Ch. 132
516.040                 Ch. 132
516.050                 Ch. 132
516.060                 Ch. 132
516.070                 Ch. 132
516.090                 Ch. 132
516.110                 Ch. 132
516.120                 Ch. 132
516.130                 Ch. 132
519.020                 Ch. 135
519.030                 Ch. 135
519.040                 Ch. 135
519.050                 Ch. 135
519.060                 Ch. 135
520.020                 Ch. 135
520.030                 Ch. 135
520.040                 Ch. 135
520.050                 Ch. 135
520.060                 Ch. 135
520.070                 Ch. 135
520.080                 Ch. 135
520.090                 Ch. 135
520.100                 Ch. 135
520.120                 Ch. 135
520.130                 Ch. 135
521.020                 Ch. 135
521.030                 Ch. 135
521.040                 Ch. 135
522.020                 Ch. 135
522.030                 Ch. 135
522.040                 Ch. 135
523.020                 Ch. 135
523.030                 Ch. 135
523.040                 Ch. 135
523.100                 Ch. 135
524.020                 Ch. 135
524.030                 Ch. 135
524.040                 Ch. 135
524.045                 Ch. 135
524.050                 Ch. 135
524.060                 Ch. 135
524.070                 Ch. 135
524.080                 Ch. 135
524.090                 Ch. 135
524.100                 Ch. 135
524.110                 Ch. 135
524.120                 Ch. 135
524.130                 Ch. 135
525.020                 Ch. 136
525.030                 Ch. 136
525.040                 Ch. 136
525.050                 Ch. 136
525.060                 Ch. 136
525.070                 Ch. 136
525.080                 Ch. 136
525.090                 Ch. 136
525.100                 Ch. 136
525.105                 Ch. 136
525.110                 Ch. 136
525.115                 Ch. 136
525.120                 Ch. 136
525.125                 Ch. 136
525.130                 Ch. 136
525.140                 Ch. 136
525.150                 Ch. 136
525.160                 Ch. 136
526.020                 Ch. 136
526.030                 Ch. 136
526.040                 Ch. 136
526.050                 Ch. 136
526.060                 Ch. 136
528.020                 Ch. 134
528.030                 Ch. 134
528.040                 Ch. 134
528.050                 Ch. 134
528.060                 Ch. 134
528.070                 Ch. 134
528.080                 Ch. 134
528.110                 Ch. 134
528.120                 Ch. 134
529.020                 Ch. 133
529.030                 Ch. 133
529.040                 Ch. 133
529.050                 Ch. 133
529.070                 Ch. 133
529.080                 Ch. 133
Ch. 530                 114.04
530.010                 Ch. 131
530.020                 Ch. 131
530.030                 Ch. 131
530.040                 Ch. 131
530.050                 Ch. 131
530.060                 Ch. 131
530.064                 Ch. 131
530.065                 Ch. 131
                        Ch. 131,
530.070                 141.02,
                        141.99
530.080                 Ch. 131
531.020                 Ch. 133
531.030                 Ch. 133
531.040                 Ch. 133
531.050                 Ch. 133
531.060                 Ch. 133
531.310                 Ch. 133
531.320                 Ch. 133
531.340                 Ch. 133
531.350                 Ch. 133
531.360                 Ch. 133
531.370                 Ch. 133
532.020(3)              73.02
532.060                 139.04
532.090                 139.02
534.030                 139.03
534.040                 139.01
Ch. 610                 141.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Code Section
Ord. No. Date     Code Section
        5-3-54   Ch. 74, Sched. I
        8-24-59  50.001
        10-5-59  T.S.O. V
        8- -61   T.S.O. II
        8-10-61  T.S.O. I
        8-10-61  T.S.O. II
        4-26-62  91.07
        9-13-62  T.S.O. II
        1-7-63   T.S.O. II
        3-4-63   T.S.O. II
        7-17-63  Ch. 153
        7-17-63  Repealed
        6-1-64   T.S.O. II
        10-4-65  50.001
65-5     12- -65  T.S.O. II
        7-1-68   51.01
        5-19-75  72.05
78-1     9-13-78  T.S.O. I
1979-1   9-10-79  35.62
                  51.02,
                  51.05,
1979-2   11-5-79  51.06,
                  51.11,
                  51.12,
                  51.99
79-3     11-5-79  35.45 -
                  35.49
                  95.01,
                  95.02(A),(B),
1-80     2-4-80   95.03(A),
                  95.04-
                  95.07
10-80    12-18-80 T.S.O. II
81-1     3-2-81   96.01 -
                  96.04
81-      4-27-81  154.01
81-6     9- -81   T.S.O. IV
                  154.10 -
82-      5-3-82   154.13,
                  154.99
5-82-1   5-24-82  T.S.O. VIII
5-82-2   5-24-82  35.62
10-82-1  10-4-82  51.02
2-83-2   2-11-83  50.153
3-83-1   3-7-83   31.36
8-83-1   8-1-83   Ch. 52
1-84-1   1-16-84  T.S.O. II
1-84-2   1-16-84  50.150
1-84-3   1-16-84  51.03,
                  51.10
4-84-1   4-2-84   150.04
5-84-1   5-31-84  96.02
7-84-9   7-9-84   T.S.O. II
                  50.151,
8-84-1   8-15-84  50.152,
                  50.154 -
                  50.156
1-85-1   1-7-85   Repealed
2-85-4   2-4-85   31.21(E)
3-85-1   3-4-85   150.05
                  72.50 -
8-85-1   8-5-85   72.56,
                  72.99
8-85-1   8-12-85  151.01
9-85-1   9-3-85   Ch. 152
12-85-1  12-16-86 Repealed
1-86-1   1-20-86  Repealed
3-86-1   3-3-86   35.63
6-86-1   6-9-86   35.30 -
                  35.33
8-86-2   8-4-86   32.21(A)
                  36.01 -
9-86-1   9-24-86  36.03,
                  36.06
9-86-2   9-24-86  37.04
                  50.002 -
10-86-1  10-20-86 50.139,
                  50.999
11-86-1  11-17-86 35.02
                  50.170 -
12-86-   12-1-86  50.184,
                  50.999
4-87-1   4-20-87  50.152
5-87-2   5-18-87  T.S.O. III
5-87-1   5-4-87   32.01(C)
10-87-1  10-19-87 72.50 -
                  72.99
11-87-1  11-2-87  Repealed
11-87-2  11-16-87 50.152
5-88-1   5-23-88  Repealed
6-88-2   6-8-88   Repealed
11-88-1  11-7-88  50.152
11-8-2   11-21-88 31.20(A) (B)
11-88-3  11-21-88 35.30 -
                  35.33
12-88-1  12-5-88  51.03
                  51.02,
                  51.03,
                  51.05,
3-89-1   3-6-89   51.06,
                  51.10 -
                  51.12 
                  51.99
12-89-1  12-27-89 50.150,
                  50.153
12-89-3  12-27-89 51.02(A)(1)
4-90-1   4-16-90  T.S.O. VIII
4-90-4   4-16-90  Repealed
5-91-1   5-20-91  Chap. 53
5-91-2   5-20-91  Chap. 53
5-91-3   5-20-91  50.153,
                  Chap. 54
5-91-4   5-20-91  32.01(C)
                  50.003,
                  50.045,
7-91-1   7-1-91   50.061,
                  50.083(B),
                  50.087(D)(E),
                  50.999
8-91-1   8-30-91  T.S.O II
9-91-1   9-19-91  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
9-91-2   9-19-91  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
9-91-3   9-19-91  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
9-91-4   10-7-91  T.S.O. VIII
11-91-1  10-29-91 Repealed
12-91-1  12-2-91  T.S.O. VI
5-92-1   5-4-92   Repealed
5-92-2   5-4-92   T.S.O. IV
5-92-3   5-4-92   T.S.O. IV
6-92-1   6-4-92   Repealed
9-92-4   9-14-92  36.03
9-92-1   9-28-92  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
9-92-2   9-28-92  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
9-92-3   9-28-92  TEMPORARY IN NATURE
3-93-1   3-1-93   32.23
3-93-2   3-1-93   33.03
4-93-1   4-5-93   71.75 -
                  71.80
4-93-2   4-19-93  31.02(E)-(F)
7-93-1   7-12-93  T.S.O. VI
                 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description                                   Code
                                                                    Section
10-93-1   10-4-93     Annexing parcel of real estate                T.S.O. II
12-93-1   12-8-93     Sewer use ordinance                           50.002-
                                                                    50.139
12-93-2   12-13-93    Sewer rates and charges                       50.151-
                                                                    50.155
12-93-3   12-13-93    Personnel policies and procedures              
                                                                    T.S.O. VI
12-93-4   12-13-93    Method of compensating elected officials      31.02(A)(2)
12-93-5   12-13-93    Establishing per diem rates                   31.02
3-94-1    3-7-94      Sewer rates and charges                       50.151-
                                                                    50.155
5-94-1    6-6-94      Revising sewer use ordinance                   
6-94-5    6-20-94     Procedure for abatement of nuisances          Ch. 92
8-94-1    8- -94      Authorizing franchise to Kentucky Utilities   T.S.O. VII
11-94-1   11-7-94     Blighted and deteriorated properties          Ch. 97
11-94-2   11-7-94     Establishing code of ethical conduct          Ch. 38
11-94-3   11-7-94     Interlocal agreement referring to ethics code T.S.O. III
12-94-1   12-19-94    Investment policy                             33.25 -
                                                                    33.37
12-94-2   12-19-94    Preventing damage to underground facilities   150.10 -
                                                                    150.12
4-95-1    4-12-95     Water rates and charges                       50.150
                      Annual budget for Municipal Aid Program and   Not
6-95-1    6-5-95      Local Government Economic Assistance Program  Included
                      for FY 95-96
6-95-2    6-5-95      Annual budget for FY 95-96                    Not
                                                                    Included
6-95-3    6-5-95      Annual budget for Natural Gas and Water       Not
                      Department for FY 95-96                       Included
6-95-4    6-5-95   Annual budget for the Wastewater Treatment    Not
                      Department for FY 95-96                       Included
8-95-1    8-15-95     Flood damage prevention                       Repealed
9-95-1    9-25-95     Ad valorem tax - all taxable property         Not
                                                                    Included
9-95-2    9-25-95     Ad valorem tax - bank shares                  Not
                                                                    Included
9-95-3    9-25-95     Ad valorem tax - motor vehicles               Not
                                                                    Included
9-95-4    9-25-95     Dissolution of the Joint Flemingsburg/Fleming 35.63,
                      County Auxiliary Police Board                 T.S.O. VIII
9-95-5    9-25-95     Adopting the 1993 BOCA National Property      Repealed
                      Maintenance Code
9-95-6    9-25-95     Adopting Kentucky Building Code               Repealed
12-95-1   12-22-95    Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
1-96-1    1-22-96     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
5-96-1    5-6-96      Fixing compensation of Council members        31.02,
                                                                    32.01
9-96-3    9-12-96     Adopting 1996 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
9-96-4    9-12-96     Adopting 1997 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
                      (motor vehicles)
9-96-1    9-18-96     Amending personnel policies and procedures    T.S.O. VI
3-97-1    3-3-97      Providing for acceptance of community service Ch. 140
                      work referrals
9-97-1    9-22-97     Adopting 1997 ad valorem tax rates            T.S.O. IX
9-97-2    9-22-97     Adopting 1998 ad valorem tax rates (motor     T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles)
                                                                    31.02,
5-98-1    05-04-98    Amending compensation of elected officers     31.21,
                                                                    32.01
8-98-1    08-03-98    Establishment and operation of the Economic   35.85
                      Development Commission
9-98-1    9-28-98     Adopting 1999 ad valorem tax rates for motor  T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
10-98-1   10-5-98     Adopting 1998 ad valorem tax rates for all    T.S.O. IX
                      taxable properties
4-99-1    4-5-99      Amending sewer rates                          50.152
4-99-2    4-5-99      Amending water rates                          50.150
4-99-4    4-5-99      Amending gas rates                            51.02
6-99-1    6-7-99      Adopting annual budget of the gas and water   Not
                      department for FY 1999-2000                   Included
6-99-2    6-7-99      Adopting annual budget of the wastewater      Not
                      treatment department for FY 1999-2000         Included
                      Adopting annual budget of the Municipal Aid   Not
6-99-3    6-7-99      Program and Local Government Economic         Included
                      Assistance Program for FY 1999-2000
6-99-4    6-7-99      Adopting the city's annual budget for FY      Not
                      1999-2000                                     Included
                      Amending water connection rate fees and       50.150,
6-99-5    VOID        establishing provisions regarding refundable  50.150A
                      deposits
6-99-6    6-14-99     Amending natural gas deposits                 51.03
                      Amending water connection rate fees and       50.150,
7-99-1    - -         establishing provisions regarding refundable  50.150A
                      deposits
7-99-2    - -         Regarding gas deposit rates                   51.03
9-99-1    9-14-99     Adopting 2000 ad valorem tax rates for motor  T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
9-99-2    9-14-99     Adopting 1999 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
1-00-1    - -         Adopting guidelines on employee travel        T.S.O. VI
                      expenditures
5-00-1    5-25-00     Amending annual budget of the gas and water   Not
                      department for FY 1999-2000                   Included
5-00-2    5-25-00     Amending annual budget of the wastewater      Not
                      treatment department for FY 1999-2000         Included
5-00-3    5-25-00     Amending the city's annual budget for FY      Not
                      1999-2000                                     Included
                      Amending annual budget of the Municipal Aid   Not
5-00-4    5-25-00     Program and Local Government Economic         Included
                      Assistance Program for FY 1999-2000
6-00-1    6-5-00      Amending solid waste collection               53.23
6-00-2    6- -00      Adopting the city's annual budget for FY      Not
                      2000-2001                                     Included
6-00-3    6-19-00     Adopting annual budget of the gas and water   Not
                      department for FY 2000-2001                   Included
6-00-4    6- -00      Adopting annual budget of the wastewater      Not
                      treatment department for FY 2000-2001         Included
6-00-5    6- -00      Adopting annual budget of the CATV franchise  Not
                      fees for FY 2000-2001                         Included
7-00-1    7-3-00      Establishing separate rates for Mayslick      51.02
                      Natural gas customers
7-00-2    7-3-00      Amending sewer rates                          50.152
7-00-3    7-10-00     Amending water rates                          50.150
8-00-1    8-9-00      Establishing duties and compensation of the   31.36
                      office of Clerk-Treasurer
9-00-1    9-5-00      Adopting 2001 ad valorem tax rates for motor  T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
9-00-2    9-18-00     Adopting 2000 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
12-00-1   11-27-00    Adopting budget for CDBG grant funds          Not
                                                                    Included
12-00-2   12-18-00    Establishing Computer Operator I position     Not
                                                                    Included
3-01-1    3-14-01     Amending license fees for insurance companies Repealed
6-01-1    6-4-01      Amending the meeting time of City Council     32.21
6-01-2    6-11-01     Amending Personnel Policies and Procedures    T.S.O. VI 
6-01-3    6-18-01     Adopting budget for FY 01-02                  Not
                                                                    Included
6-01-4    6-18-01     Adopting budget for Natural Gas and Water     Not
                      Department for FY 01-02                       Included
6-01-5    6-18-01     Annual budget for the Wastewater Treatment    Not
                      Department for FY 01-02                       Included
7-01-1    8-20-01     Adopting 2001 Zoning Code                     156.01
9-01-2    9-17-01     Adopting 2001 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
9-01-3    9-17-01     Adopting a Racial Profiling Policy            39.01 -
                                                                    39.04
9-01-4    9-17-01     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
                                                                    31.02,
4-02-1    4-15-02     Amending compensation of elected officers     31.21,
                                                                    32.01
6-02-1    6-25-02     Adopting fees for zoning applications and     156.01
                      permits
6-02-2    6-25-02     Annual budget for Natural Gas and Water       Not
                      Department for FY 02-03                       Included
6-02-3    6-25-02     Annual budget for FY 02-03                    Not
                                                                    Included
6-02-4    6-25-02     Amending sewer usage rates                    50.152
7-02-1    7-8-02      Amending water rates                          50.150
8-02-1    8-12-02     Amending water rates                          50.150
9-02-1    9-16-02     Adopting 2003 ad valorem tax rate for motor   T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
9-02-2    9-16-02     Adopting 2002 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
11-02-1   11-11-02    Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
11-02-2   11-11-02    Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
11-02-3   11-11-02    Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
12-02-1   12-9-02     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
6-03-1    6-9-03      Amending pay scale for city employees         T.S.O. VI
6-03-2    6-9-03      Amending water rates                          50.150
6-03-3    6-9-03      Amending sewer usage rates                    50.152
9-03-1    9-12-03     Adopting 2004 ad valorem tax rate for motor   T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
9-03-2    9-12-03     Adopting 2003 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
9-03-3    9-22-03     Enacting historic preservation guidelines     150.20
12-03-1   12-15-03    Repealing existing occupational license tax   Repealed
                      chapter and adopting new provisions
12-03-2   12-15-03    Creating deposit franchise tax                36.15 -
                                                                    36.19
2-04-1    2-23-04     Amending compensation rates for city          31.02,
                      officials and Councilmembers                  32.01
5-04-1    5-24-04     Creating franchise for electric facilities    T.S.O. VII
9-04-1    9-13-04     Adopting 2004 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
9-04-2    9-13-04     Adopting 2005 ad valorem tax rate for motor   T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
2-05-1    2-14-05     Adopting an interlocal agreement for the      T.S.O. III
                      dispatch of emergency services
6-05-1    6 - -05     Creating a cable television franchise         T.S.O. VII
6-05-2    6-24-05     Amending the sewer rate schedule              51.152
6-05-3    6-13-05     Amending rates for water customers            50.150
6-05-6    6-24-05     Adopting 2006 ad valorem tax rate for         T.S.O. IX
                      abandoned urban property
6-05-7    6-24-05     Creating a telephone franchise                T.S.O. VII
7-05-1    7-14-05     Amending the regulatory license fees          Repealed
9-05-1    9-12-05     Adopting 2005 ad valorem tax rate for motor   T.S.O. IX
                      vehicles
9-05-2    9-12-05     Amending pay scale for city employees         T.S.O. VI
9-05-3    9-21-05     Adopting 2006 ad valorem property tax rate    T.S.O. IX
                      Amending compensation rates for the Mayor and 31.02,
4-06-1    4-10-06     Council members                               31.21,
                                                                    32.01
4-06-2    4-10-06     Establishing the Code Enforcement Board       Repealed
9-6-03    9-11-06     Amending the property maintenance code        Repealed
                      Adopting provisions concerning adult          114.01 -
11-06-1   11-13-06    entertainment establishments                  114.08,
                                                                    114.99
3-07-1    3-12-07     Amending license fees                         Repealed
7-07-1    7-23-07     Adopting an interlocal agreement for the      T.S.O. III
                      dispatch of emergency services
11-07-1   11-12-07    Repealing provisions on license fees and      113.01 -
                      adopting new provisions                       113.06
                      Repealing existing occupational license tax   110.01 -
12-07-1   12-10-07    chapter and adopting new provisions           110.14,
                                                                    110.99
                                                                    98.01 -
4-08-1    4-29-08     Adopting noise regulations                    98.06,
                                                                    98.99
4-08-2    4-29-08     Creating positions of Assistant City Clerk-   31.361,
                      Treasurer and Police Sergeant                 35.61
4-08-3    4-29-08     Establishing curfew for juveniles             141.01
                                                                 141.02
6-08-1    6-9-08      Amending compensation rates                   31.02,
                                                                    32.01
12-08-1   12-8-08     Adopting identity theft prevention program    40.01
                                                                    50.150,
                                                                    50.150A,
                                                                    50.152,
                                                                    51.02,
                                                                    51.03,
1-9-01    1-19-09     Amending water and sewer rates                51.04,
                                                                    51.07,
                                                                    51.08,
                                                                    51.09,
                                                                    54.05,
                                                                    54.06,
                                                                    54.07
1-09-2    1-19-09     Approving interlocal agreement                T.S.O. III
                                                                    93.30 -
3-09-1    3-9-09      Adopting outdoor and open burning regulations 93.41,
                                                                    93.99
                                                                    90.01,
                                                                    90.10 -
4-09-1    4-13-09     Repealing and replacing animal regulations    90.18,
                                                                    90.25 -
                                                                    90.31,
                                                                    90.99
5-09-1    5-11-09     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
5-09-2    5-11-09     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
6-09-1    6-8-09      Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
8-09-1    8-10-09     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
                                                                    33.45 -
10-09-1   10-12-09    Purchasing and procurement regulations        33.47,
                                                                    33.99
11-09-1   11-9-09     Adoption of state building code               150.01 -
                                                                    150.05
3-10-1    3-8-10      Community Television Access Board             35.01,
                                                                    35.02
3-10-2    3-8-10      Sewer utility rates                           50.152
3-10-3    3-8-10      Water utility rates                           50.150
                                                                    152.01 -
                                                                    152.11,
                                                                    152.25 -
3-10-4    3-24-10     Flood hazard regulations                      152.27,
                                                                    152.40 -
                                                                    152.46,
                                                                    152.60,
                                                                    152.99
                                                                    31.02,
4-10-1    4-12-10     Compensation for elected officials            31.21,
                                                                    32.01
11-10-2   11-9-10     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
11-10-3   11-9-10     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
                                                                    54.10 -
1-11-1    1-10-11     Obstruction of utility meters                 54.13,
                                                                    54.99
                                                                    90.01,
                                                                    90.10 -
3-11-1    3-14-11     Repealing and replacing animal regulations    90.18,
                                                                    90.25 -
                                                                    90.31,
                                                                    90.99
4-11-1    4-11-11     Sewage system discharge regulations           50.061
5-11-1    5-9-11      Adoption of International Property            155.01
                      Maintenance Code
6-11-3    6-13-11     Sewer utility rates                           50.152
                                                                    50.003,
                                                                    50.014,
                                                                    50.061,
                                                                    50.081-
                                                                    50.083,
10-11-1   10-10-11    Sewer use ordinance                           50.087,
                                                                    50.088,
                                                                    50.093,
                                                                    50.094,
                                                                    50.096,
                                                                    50.140
4-12-1    4-9-12      Amending compensation rates                   31.02
                                                                    53.03,
6-12-1    6-18-12     Amending solid waste collection               53.08,
                                                                    53.23,
                                                                    53.99
6-12-5    6-18-12     Amending rates for water customers            50.150
9-12-1    9-10-12     Sidewalk maintenance                          91.06
9-12-4    9-10-12     Zoning map change                             Not
                                                                    Included
                                                                    90.01,
                                                                    90.10 -
10-12-1   10-8-12     Amending animal regulations                   90.18,
                                                                    90.25 -
                                                                    90.32,
                                                                    90.99
                                                                    99.01,
                                                                    99.10 -
12-12-1   12-10-12    Trees                                         99.16,
                                                                    99.25 -
                                                                    99.32,
                                                                    99.99
                                                                    92.20 -
12-13-1   12-9-13     Adopting bed bugs regulations                 92.25,
                                                                    92.99
12-13-2   12-9-13     Amending pollutant discharge limits           50.061
2-14-04   2-10-14     Creating franchise for electric facilities    T.S.O. VII
4-14-1    4-14-14     Amending sewer system connection fees         50.150
4-14-2    4-28-14     Amending per diem and annual compensation for 31.02
                      officials
4-14-4    4-28-14     Amending parking fees                         72.99
4-14-5    4-25-14     Creating and amending positions in the Police Not
                      Department                                    Included
- -       6-9-14      Authorizing the sale of bonds                 Not
                                                                    Included
7-14-01   6-23-14     Amending signs regulations                    Not
                                                                    Included
11-14-1   11-10-14    Amending pollutant discharge limits           50.063
4-15-1    4-28-15     Creating franchise for cable service provider T.S.O. VII
5-15-1    4-28-15     Amending zoning application fees              Not
                                                                    Included
6-15-04   6-8-15      Creating franchise for electric facilities    T.S.O. VII
6-15-06   6-29-15     Adopting regulations regarding electrical     150.35 -
                      inspectors                                    150.38
6-15-07   6-29-15     Amending solid waste collection rates         53.23
9-15-02   9-14-15     Creating franchise for electric facilities    T.S.O. VII
7-16-1    7-11-16     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
                                                                    35.100 -
11-16-1   11-14-16    Amending the Code Enforcement Board           35.115,
                                                                    92.06,
                                                                    92.99
11-16-2   11-14-16    Amending building code                        150.01 -
                                                                    150.05
12-16-1   12-12-16    Amending blighted and deteriorated properties 97.01 -
                                                                    97.05
                                                                    141.01,
2-17-1    2-13-17     Amending curfew hours                         141.02,
                                                                    141.99
03-17-01  3-13-17     Amending bicycle legislation                  73.01,
                                                                    73.02
7-17-01   7-10-17     Adding alcoholic beverages regulations        Repealed
                                                                    112.01 -
7-17-02   7-10-17     Amending pawnbrokers                          112.11,
                                                                    112.99
9-17-3    9-12-17     Amending property maintenance code            155.01
10-17-1   10-9-17     Creating business incentives program          116.01  -
                                                                    116.08
10-17-2   10-23-17    Zoning map change                          Not
                                                                    Included
2-18-1  2-12-18     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
2-18-2    2-12-18     Annexing certain property                     T.S.O. II
3-01-18   3-12-18     Amending compensation of city employees       T.S.O. VI
                                                                    31.02 ,
4-18-1    4-30-18     Fixing elected officials compensation         31.21 ,
                                                                    32.01
4-18-2    4-30-18     Zoning map change                          Not
                                                                    Included
1-19-1    1-14-19     Adopting utility system budget for fiscal     Not
                      year 18/19                                    Included
1-19-2    1-14-19     Adopting incentive program for city officials 31.60  -
                      to obtain training                            31.65
1-19-3  2-11-19     Amending time and place of City    Council 32.21
                      meetings
                      Amending utility deposit amounts and          50.150A ,
4-19-1  4-8-19   regulations                                   51.03 ,
                                                                    54.05
4-19-2  4-8-19   Amending solid waste fees and regulations     53.23
4-19-3    4-16-19     Amending regulation of keeping or harboring   90.31
                      stinging insects
5-19-2    5-28-19     Amending solid waste collection rates         53.23
                      Authorizing and regulating the use of golf    75.01 -
9-19-1    9-9-19      carts on city streets                         75-07,
                                                                    75.99
                      Establishing the Tourist and Convention       35.130 -
10-19-1   10-14-19    Commission, whose operations are to be funded 35.134,
                      by a transient room tax and a restaurant tax  36.30 -
                                                                    36.35
6-20-1    6-8-20      Fixing compensation for City Councilpersons   31.02,
                                                                    32.01
                                                                    115.001 -
                                                                    115.005,
                                                                    115.015 -
                                                                    115.022,
                                                                    115.035,
                                                                    115.036,
                                                                    115.045 -
                                                                    115.058,
                                                                    115.070,
                      Repealing and replacing alcoholic beverage    115.080 -
12-20-21  12-17-20    regulations                                   115.095,
                                                                    115.105,
                                                                    115.115 -
                                                                    115.118,
                                                                    115.130 -
                                                                    115.133,
                                                                    115.145,
                                                                    115.155,
                                                                    115.165 -
                                                                    115.168,
                                                                    115.999
2-21-1    2-8-21      Amending utility deposits                     50.150A,
                                                                    51.03
                                                                    37.01,
2-21-2    2-17-21     Repealing personnel policies                  37.16,
                                                                    37.17
12-21-1   12-21-21    Amending employee compensation                T.S.O. VI
                                                                    34.01,
12-21-2   12-21-21    Amending regulations for public records       34.05 -
                                                                    34.12   
12-21-3   12-22-21    Amending employee compensation                T.S.O. VI
                                                                    31.02,
5-22-1    5-9-22      Fixing compensation for elected officials     31.21,
                                                                    32.01
9-22-1    9-16-22     Amending utility connection fee               Not
                                                                    Included
7-23-1    7-10-23     Zoning map amendment                          Not
                                                                    Included
8-23-1    8-14-23     Solid waste franchise                         T.S.O. VII
                                                                    150.50 -
10-23-1   10-9-23     Residential rental unit permit                150.56,
                                                                    150.99
10-23-2   10-9-23     Code Enforcement Board                        35.100 -
                                                                    35.116
10-23-3   10-9-23     Water and sewer amendments                    50.005,
                                                                    51.03
01-24-01  1-8-24      Sheriff to bill and collect taxes             36.07
6-24-1    6-10-24     Amending the occupational license tax         110.03
6-24-2    6-10-24     Adopting regulations for mobile self-         117.01 -
                      contained food unit vendors                   117.04
                      Adopting regulations for medical cannabis     118.01 -
7-24-1    7-8-24      business operations                           118.09,
                                                                    118.99
                                                                  
 
