CITY OF FLORENCE, KY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-31 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance O-26-2024, passed 12-17-2024
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024 Supplement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b4be239f5b12ee49dca84975e751de428d9af07f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5683.bmp]
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         Chapter
            
10.    RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
            
11.    CITY BASE AND BENCH MARK
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
10.01   Interpretation
   
10.02   Application to future legislation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Rule of severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Ordinances repealed
   
10.10   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this and subsequent chapters in this volume shall
constitute and be designated and cited as "The Florence Code."
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, or K.R.S., that reference indicates the section is
similar to the Kentucky Revised Statutes section. Footnotes, cross-references,
and other comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a
part of the text of any section.
   (D)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation although they may not be so
limited specifically.
§ 10.02 APPLICATION TO FUTURE LEGISLATION.
   All of the provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation,
shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this
code, unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The definitions
for "SIDEWALK" and "STREET" do not apply to the traffic code when another
definition is provided.
   "AND" or "OR." Includes the other as if written "AND/OR."
   "BUSINESS TRUST." Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
"statutory trust" as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   "CERTIFIED MAIL." Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   "CITY," "TOWN," "VILLAGE," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," or "MUNICIPALITY." The
Municipality of Florence irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   "CODE" or "CODE OF ORDINANCES." The city code as adopted by this chapter,
and as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   "COMMONWEALTH." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "COUNCIL." The City Council of the City of Florence.
   "COUNTY." Boone County, Kentucky.
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   "MONTH." A calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   "OWNER." When applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the
whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
   "PARTNERSHIP." Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   "PERSON." May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes every species of property except real
property.
   "PROPERTY." Includes real and personal property.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all rights
thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
   "REGISTERED MAIL." Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   "REVISED STATUTES" or "KRS." The Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   "STREET." The entire width between property lines of every way or place, of
whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right.
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A) As used in this code, unless the context requires otherwise:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not
limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (B) Computation of time. The time within which an act is required to be done
by any provision of this code shall be computed by excluding the first and
including the last day; except that when the last day falls on Sunday or a
legal holiday, then the act may be done on the next succeeding day which is not
a Sunday or a legal holiday.
§ 10.06 RULE OF SEVERABILITY.
   Each chapter, section or, whenever divisible, part section of this code, is
severable, and the invalidity of any chapter, section, or divisible part
section shall not be construed to affect the validity of any other chapter,
section, or part of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section, this reference
shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended,
revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is changed or
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city, exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature of the city pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this code; provided, nothing contained herein shall affect any rights,
actions, or causes of action which accrued to the city prior to the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time within the city for the transaction of all city business
shall be as established by state and federal law.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any section of this code, where another penalty is not
otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a violation and the offender
shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory Reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, See KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
CHAPTER 11: CITY BASE AND BENCH MARK
Section
   
11.01   City base and bench mark
§ 11.01 CITY BASE AND BENCH MARK.
   For the legal and technical description of the elevation and final bench
mark for the city, see Ordinance 31, a copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Clerk.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         Chapter
            
30.    CITY COUNCIL
            
31.    CITY OFFICIALS
            
32.    POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS; RESCUE SQUAD
            
33.    OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
            
34.    PERSONNEL POLICIES
            
35.    PUBLIC RECORDS
            
36.    PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS
            
37.    AD VALOREM TAXATION
            
38.    INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BONDS - ISSUANCE FEE POLICY
            
39.    PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND PROJECTS
            
40.    INTERLOCAL COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
            
41.    DISASTER AND EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
            
42.    INVESTMENT POLICIES
            
43.    CODE OF ETHICS
            
44.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
            
45.   BULDING GRANT PROGRAMS
 
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings; informational meetings; Planning and Zoning Committee
meetings
   
30.02   Members
   
30.03   Planning and Zoning Committee
   
30.04   Publication of ordinances
   
30.05   Vice-Mayor
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS; INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS; PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE
MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold its official regular meetings on the
second and fourth Tuesdays of each month. These meetings shall begin at the
hour of 6:00 p.m. at the Florence Government Center, 8100 Ewing Boulevard,
Florence, Kentucky. Any and all business may be discussed and acted upon at
those regular meetings.
   (B)   City Council shall hold regularly scheduled informal informational
meetings on the first and third Tuesday of each month. These meetings shall
begin at the hour of 6:00 p.m. at the Florence Government Center, 8100 Ewing
Boulevard, Florence, Kentucky. Any and all business may be discussed and acted
upon at those regular meetings.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Committee of the City Council shall hold its
official regular meetings on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at
9:00 a.m., at the Florence Government Center, 8100 Ewing Boulevard, Florence,
Kentucky.
(Ord. O-1-90, passed 1-23-90; Am. Ord. O-31-93, passed 11-9-93; Am. Ord. O-11-
97, passed 5-13-97; Am. Ord. O-05-00, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. O-02-01, passed
3-13-01; Am. Ord. O-29-07, passed 1-8-08; Am. Ord. O-1-09, passed 2-3-09; Am.
Ord. O-1-13, passed 1-22-13; Am. Ord. O-28-14, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. O-9-
18, passed 6-19-18; Am. Ord. O-17-19, passed 10-8-19; Am. Ord. O-20-19, passed
11-19- 19; Am. Ord. O-9-20, passed 7-28- 20; Am. Ord. O-10-2023, passed 5-2-23)
§ 30.02 MEMBERS.
   The number of members of the city's legislative body is hereby fixed at six.
All of the members shall be elected at large by the voters of the city, and the
elections shall be governed by the general election laws of the state.
(Ord. O-3-89, passed 2-14-89)
§ 30.03 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE.
   There in hereby created the Planning and Zoning Committee which shall be a
standing committee of the City Counci1. All members of the City Council shall
be members of the Planning and Zoning Committee. The Planning and Zoning
Committee shall elect one of its members to preside at meetings of the
Committee.
(Ord. O-1-90, passed 1-23-90)
§ 30.04 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   With respect to publication of ordinances under the provisions of KRS
83A.060(9), the City Council hereby directs that, unless specified otherwise in
the body of the ordinance, all ordinances which qualify for summary publication
shall be published is summary rather than in full.
(Ord. O-1-90, passed 1-23-90)
§ 30.05 VICE-MAYOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.130(5), there is hereby created the position of
Vice-Mayor. The Vice-Mayor shall be a member of Council who shall preside at
meetings of Council in the absence of the Mayor.
      (1)   The Vice-Mayor shall be the member of Council who received the
largest number of votes in the general election at which all members of the
City Council of which the Vice-Mayor is a part were elected.
      (2)   The term of office of the Vice-Mayor shall be two years and shall
correspond to the terms of the members of Council elected at the time of
election of the Vice-Mayor.
   (B)   If a vacancy should occur in the position of Vice-Mayor, the member of
Council who received the second largest number of votes in such election shall
fill the position for the remainder of the term of office.
(Ord. O-1-90, passed 1-23-90)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Legal defense for accused city officer, employee, or volunteer
   
31.02    City Officials Training Program
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election to be non-partisan
   
31.16   Compensation
Nonelective City Offices
   
31.25   Establishment
   
31.26   Powers and duties; oath; bond; compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 LEGAL DEFENSE FOR ACCUSED CITY OFFICER, EMPLOYEE, OR VOLUNTEER.
   The city shall furnish a legal defense for any city officer (including
elected officials), employee, volunteer firefighter or rescue squad member to
any civil action filed against such person under the following conditions:
   (A)   That the circumstances alleged in the civil action occurred in the
course of or arose from the employment or official position of such person with
the city;
   (B)   That the city officer, employee, volunteer firefighter or rescue squad
member was employed by the city or acting in such capacity for the city, at the
time such circumstances are alleged to have occurred.
(Ord. O-9-90, passed 5-8-90)
§ 31.02 CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      “ADMINISTRATOR.” The City of Florence Administration Department.
      “EXCESS HOURS.” Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar
year.
      “QUALIFYING COURSE.” Any training, seminar, educational or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been pre-approved
by the administrator.
      “TRAINING UNIT.” Fifteen clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
   (B)   Adoption of City Officials Training Program. In accordance with KRS
64.5278, the City of Florence hereby establishes the City Officials Training
Program to make available incentive payments as specified by this policy to the
elected city officials, including the Mayor and all members of the City
Council, and nonelected city officers holding an office existing or created
under KRS 83A.080 to participate in the incentive program.
   (C)   Incentive payment.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $500 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city. In addition, the city official shall receive mileage
reimbursement and per diem meal allowances as described in the City of Florence
Administrative Policies, subject to a travel request form. The city official
shall only receive training incentive payments for a maximum of four training
units. The city official shall not be awarded more than one training unit per
calendar year.
      (2)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive
payments for four training units in each calendar year following the fourth
year, provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each
subsequent calendar year.
      (3)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year, and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
      (4)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten hours to apply to the earning of
a training unit in the following calendar year.
      (5)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within 60
days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
   (D)   Administration of city officials training.
      (1)   The City Officials Training Program for the City of Florence shall
be administered by the City Administrator. The administrator shall be
responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this policy,
maintaining records of attendance and participation, and notifying the city
when a city official earns a training unit and the number of training units
earned by a city official during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city.
      (2)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses that may be approved as qualifying
courses by the administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory
duties of cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this policy. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
      (3)   The city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation
in a qualifying course to the administrator. The city official shall submit the
course name, date, and location, name of the instructor or provider, and
sufficient proof of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before
the administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit
to a city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that
is not, in the administrator's opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
      (4)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. Within 30 days of the close of the calendar year,
the administrator shall provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and the total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
   (E)   Status of incentive payments.
      (1)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Ch.
337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under
KRS Ch. 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum compensation or
modification of compensation under KRS Ch. 83A, and may be repealed or modified
by the city at any time.
      (2)   The training incentive payment amount established in this policy
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. O-24-2023)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION TO BE NON-PARTISAN.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.050, it is hereby prescribed that, after the effective
date of this section, election of city officers shall be under the non-partisan
city election laws as provided in KRS 83A.170.
(Ord. O-27-86, passed 10-14-86)
§ 31.16 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation for the office of Mayor and for the office of member
of City Council shall be in the annual amount as established by ordinance of
City Council from time to time, payable in equal monthly installments.
   (B) The compensation for the offices of Mayor and member of City Council
shall be adjusted annually based upon the increase or decrease in the consumer
price index computed by the Department for Local Government of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky pursuant to KRS 83A.075.
   (C)   The office of Mayor having been included in the County Employees
Retirement System, contributions to the system with respect to the office of
Mayor shall be made by the city in the same manner as contributions for all
other city officer or employee members of the system.
(Ord. 0-6-89, passed 2-28-89; Am. Ord. 0-13-92, passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. O-09-
02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-9-06, passed 4-25-06; Am. Ord. O-14-21, passed
8-24-21; Am. Ord. O-5-2024, passed 3-5-24)
NONELECTIVE CITY OFFICES
§ 31.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.080(1), and other applicable law,
there are hereby created the following nonelective city offices to reflect the
responsibilities and functions of City Government for the City of Florence,
Kentucky:
   (A)   City Clerk;
   (B)   City Administrator;
   (C)   City Coordinator;
   (D)   Fire/EMS Chief; and
   (E)   Chief of Police.
(Ord. 0-40-85, passed 12-17-85; Am. Ord. O-9-2023, passed 5-2-23)
§ 31.26 POWERS AND DUTIES; OATH; BOND; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The powers and duties of each of these nonelective offices established
under §
31.25 are as set forth in the Personnel Policies and Procedures of the city
(see
Chapter 34) which are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
Any future amendments to such Personnel Policies and Procedures shall, to the
extent such amendments change the powers and duties of the offices created
under §
31.25, constitute amendments to this section.
   (B)   Persons appointed to the nonelective city offices created under §
31.25 shall, prior to beginning their duties, take the oath of office
prescribed in the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky as set forth in
Section 228 of that Constitution.
   (C)   All nonelective city officers, prior to their appointment, shall post
a bond prior to assuming his/her nonelective city office, the amount of such
bond to be established by City Council at the time of such appointment by the
Mayor as the Executive Authority of the city.
   (D)   The compensation for the nonelective city offices herein created shall
be as set forth in the Classification and Pay Plan of the city heretofore
adopted by ordinance which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part
hereof. Any future amendments to such Classification and Pay Plan shall, to the
extent that such amendments change the compensation of the offices created
under §
31.25, constitute amendments of this section.
(Ord. 0-40-85, passed 12-17-85; Am. Ord. O-9-2023, passed 5-2-23)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS; RESCUE SQUAD
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Adoption of Police Department regulations by reference
   
32.02   Probationary period
   
32.03   Vehicle equipment
Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Merger of pre-existing departments
   
32.22   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
32.23   Citation officers
   
32.24   Reimbursement for volunteer members
   
32.25   Standards for training and promotions within the Fire/EMS Department
Cross-reference:
   City to provide defense against prosecution for city officials, employees,
and volunteers, see §
31.01
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   There is adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the efficient operation and regulation of the Police
Department, the City of Florence Police Department Rules and Regulations,
except such portions as are hereafter deleted, modified, or amended.
(Ord. O-9-83, passed 2-22-83; Am. Ord. O-01-02, passed 1-15-02)
§ 32.02 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   All newly hired, transferred or promoted employees will be required to
successfully complete a minimum one year probationary period. During this
probationary period, an employee's performance may be appraised periodically by
the employees' supervisor(s).
   (B)   An employee being hired as a Police Officer, who must complete the
Basic Training Program through the Department of Criminal Justice, will begin
his or her one year probationary period at the time the employee is discharged
from that basic training. That period is not to exceed 12 months from the
original date of hire, not including any time the officer was employed and
completing the basic training required by KRS 15.404.
   (C)   The initial probationary period of any employee may be extended. In
such case, prior to or upon the expiration of the existing probationary period,
the employee will receive notification of the reasons and length of the
extended probationary period. During and following all probationary periods,
the city may terminate employment at-will.
(Ord. 0-25-76, passed 5-11-76; Am. Ord. 0-13-15, passed 8-4-15)
§ 32.03 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   Pursuant to KRS 189.920(3), it is hereby directed that the police vehicles
of the city used as emergency vehicles shall be equipped with a combination of
red and blue flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
(Ord. O-25-98, passed 12-8-98)
FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the City of Florence Fire and Emergency Medical
Services Department (hereinafter called the Department), which shall have the
duty of providing fire protection services, rescue services, hazardous material
incident mitigation services and emergency medical services to the city and to
such areas as the city may contract or bill to serve.
(Ord. O-21-93, passed 9-14-93)
§ 32.21 MERGER OF PRE-EXISTING DEPARTMENTS.
   The City of Florence Fire Department and City of Florence Rescue Squad,
being merged into the Department by this subchapter, shall cease to exist and
all paid and volunteer members and employees of the Florence Fire Department
and Florence Rescue Squad are hereby assigned to the Department in accordance
with the amendments to the personnel policies and procedures set out in
Chapter 34.
(Ord. O-21-93, passed 9-14-93)
§ 32.22 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city's Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department Rules and
Regulations, which are attached to Ordinance 0-21-93 as Exhibit "B" and are on
file with the City Clerk, are hereby adopted, approved and incorporated herein
by reference. Said rules and regulations, together with all policies and
procedures adopted in accordance with said rules and regulations, shall govern
the operations of the Department and conduct of the members and employees of
the Department.
(Ord. O-21-93, passed 9-14-93; Am. Ord. O-02-02, passed 3-12-02)
§ 32.23 CITATION OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.087, the two persons holding the positions of
Assistant Chief-Fire Division are hereby designated as citation officers and
are authorized to issue citations upon observation of violations of applicable
laws, codes and regulations related to fire prevention and fire safety. The
qualifications of the Assistant Chief-Fire Division shall be as set out in the
Personnel Policies and Procedures, as amended, which is set forth in
Chapter 34.
   (B)   The citation officers designated herein shall not have the powers of a
peace officer to make arrested or carry deadly weapons.
   (C)   The procedure for citations issued by the citation officers designated
herein shall be as provided in KRS 431.015.
(Ord. O-21-93, passed 9-14-93)
§ 32.24 REIMBURSEMENT FOR VOLUNTEER MEMBERS.
   (A)   Reimbursement Program. That a Volunteer Member Reimbursement Program
to reiimburse volunteer members of the Fire/EMS Department for expenses
resulting from their participation in the programs of the Department through
the payment of a nominal fee is hereby established as hereinafter set out.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      “FULL SHIFT.” A specific 12 hour time period, usually 6:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m., in which a member is serving on a scheduled shift at a fire station.
      “HALF SHIFT.” A specific six hour time period, usually between 6:00 p.m.
and 12:00 a.m. or 12:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m., in which a member is serving on a
scheduled shift at a fire station.
      “OFF DUTY-ON CALL.” A member who is immediately available for response
from his or her residence or a location that is within one mile from the city
and/or fire district limits.
      “ON DUTY-IN STATION.” A member who is in station and serving on a
scheduled shift, either partial, half or full.
      “PARTIAL SHIFT.” A specific time slot other than six or 12 hours in which
a member is serving on a scheduled shift at a fire station.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Members with the title of "volunteer firefighter" must complete all
required training and participation requirements, on a yearly basis, to be
eligible for reimbursement.
      (2)   New members with the title of "recruit-volunteer firefighter" who
possess little or no firefighting experience, are not eligible to receive
reimbursement until they have completed all required training and a department
orientation. Final eligibility for reimbursement of these members shall be at
the discretion of the Fire/EMS Chief.
   (D)   Reimbursement rates. Volunteer members shall be reimbursed at the
following rates:
      (1)   Members who are considered "off duty-on call" shall be reimbursed
at the rate of $10 per call answered. This rate applies to all positions and
all ranks.
      (2)   Members who are considered "on duty-in station" shall be reimbursed
$18 for half shift, $36 for full shift or a proportional amount for a partial
shift. No additional reimbursement is paid out for run response by a member
while he or she is on duty in station. This rate applies to all positions and
all ranks.
   (E)   Run hours.
      (1)   Each member must run a minimum of 24 hours "on duty-in station" in
each calendar month, unless excused by the Fire/EMS Chief.
      (2)   Each member shall be limited to run a maximum of 180 hours "on
duty-in station" in each calendar month. Any member who violates this policy
and runs additional hours beyond 180 will receive no reimbursement for those
hours above 180.
      (3)   Each member shall be permitted to run a maximum of 48 consecutive
hours of "on duty-in station" duty after which they must take a minimum of 12
hours off.
      (4)   There is no limit on the number of "off duty-on call" runs a member
may respond to.
   (F)   Off duty-on call volunteers answering calls:
      (1)   When an off-duty member responds to a run, he or she shall receive
$10 per run provided that said member responds immediately and arrives at the
station within ten minutes of the dispatch of the incident. Members who arrive
late, or after an incident has been terminated, shall not be reimbursed.
Exceptions to the "ten minute rule" include the following:
         (a)   During a long incident, a member who arrives at the station
after the initial ten minutes and remains on standby, assists with relief at
the scene as directed, and/or assists with clean up activities after companies
return to the station shall be reimbursed for the run.
         (b)   In the event a run is dispatched, and is quickly canceled prior
to any company responding from that station, off duty members who are enroute
to the station shall terminate their response. No reimbursement shall be paid.
If the first company has left the station, but is quickly canceled, personnel
enroute to the station may continue on a non-emergency basis and sign the
Incident Response Roster. These members will be reimbursed for the run. Members
who do this are required to remain at the station until the company returns to
quarters.
      (2)   In the event that multiple runs dispatched within one hour (i.e. as
a result of storms, and the like), each responding off duty member will be
reimbursed $10 for the initial response. After one hour in service, these
members shall be reimbursed at the "on duty-in station" rate. All responding,
off duty members shall be reimbursed for responding to an incident, whether
they responded on the apparatus or stood by at the station. Responding members
who arrive at the station after the dispatched company(s) have left must remain
on standby at the station until all companies from that station have returned
to quarters and/or all members have been excused by Battalion Commander.
   (G)   Written policy. The Chief of the Fire/ EMS Department shall promulgate
and implement a written policy establishing guidelines and procedures for the
administration and operation of the reimbursement program established in this
section.
(Ord. O-03-01, passed 3-13-01; Am. Ord. O-12-10, passed 9-28-10)
§ 32.25 STANDARDS FOR TRAINING AND PROMOTIONS WITHIN THE FIRE/EMS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Training and qualifications. That persons hired for service with the
Fire/EMS Department must have the following qualifications and meet the
following training requirements within the time specified:
      (1)   Firefighter/EMT or Firefighter/Paramedic:
         (a)   Shall meet job requirements for the rank of firefighter as set
down by the City of Florence "Job Descriptions" within City Personnel Policies;
and must within one year of employment:
            1.   Attain certification as a Kentucky 400 hour Certified Career
Firefighter.
            2.   Complete federal incident management courses: IS-100, 200 and
700.
            3.   Become certified as a Kentucky Company Level Fire Inspector.
         (b)   Must within two years of employment attain Firefighter I,
Firefighter II and Hazardous Materials Awareness and Operations accreditation
through one of the following curricula:
            1.   ProBoard Accredited Course.
            2.   IFSAC Accredited Course.
      (2)   Other positions filled from outside the department. If the city
chooses to fill open positions for the ranks of Battalion Chief-Fire Marshal,
Battalion Chief-Training Officer, Captain-EMS Coordinator, Assistant Fire/EMS
Chief and/or Fire/EMS Chief from outside of its Fire/EMS Department, the
individual hired to any of these positions must:
         (a)   Within one year of appointment, obtain and thereafter maintain
certification as a Kentucky 400-hour Career Level Firefighter, and a minimum
EMS certification of Kentucky Emergency Medical Technician-Basic.
         (b)   Within two years of appointment, obtain and thereafter maintain
certification as a Fire Instructor I through one of the following curricula:
            1.   Kentucky Fire Instructor I (pre-IFSAC).
            2.   ProBoard Accredited Course with Kentucky Instructor Number.
            3.   IFSAC Accredited Course with Kentucky Instructor Number.
         (c)   Within two years of appointment, obtain and thereafter maintain
certification and as a Kentucky Company Level Fire Inspector.
         (d)   Within three years of appointment, obtain and thereafter
maintain all requirements of all ranks of the department credentialing system
with the exception of; Firefighter I, Firefighter II, IFSAC Driver Operator,
IFSAC Aerial Operator and Fire Officer I.
   (B)   Promotional requirements. In order to be eligible for promotion to
ranks above firefighter, personnel must attain the following required training
and/or certifications for each of the following ranks:
      (1)   For the rank of Fire/EMS Lieutenant:
         (a)   Must meet all job requirements for promotion to the rank of
Fire/EMS Lieutenant as set down by the City of Florence “Job Descriptions”
within City Personnel Policies.
         (b)   Must have served a minimum of two (2) years within the rank of
Firefighter/EMT or Firefighter/Paramedic within the Florence Fire/EMS
Department.
         (c)   Must be certified to operate all department apparatus based on
departmental requirements and curricula.
         (d)   Must possess certification as a Fire Service Instructor through
one of the following curricula:
            1.   Kentucky Fire Instructor I (pre-IFSAC).
            2.   ProBoard Accredited Course with Kentucky Instructor Number.
            3.   IFSAC Accredited Course with Kentucky Instructor Number.
         (e)   Must have completed an Incident Safety Officer course through
one of the following curricula:
            1.   ProBoard Accredited Course.
            2.   IFSAC Accredited Course.
            3.   National Fire Academy Course.
            4.   FDSOA Accredited Course.
      (2)   For the rank of Fire/EMS Captain:
         (a)   Must meet all job requirements for promotion to the rank of
Fire/EMS Captain as set down by the City of Florence “Job Descriptions” within
City Personnel Policies.
         (b)   Must possess Fire Officer I accreditation, through one of the
following curricula:
            1.   Northern Kentucky Fire Officer Development Course.
            2.   ProBoard Accredited Course.
            3.   IFSAC Accredited Course.
         (c)   Must have completed federal incident management courses: IS-300,
400 and 800.
      (3)   For the rank of Fire/EMS Battalion Chief:
         (a)   Must meet all job requirements for promotion to the rank of
Fire/EMS Battalion Chief as set down by the City of Florence “Job Descriptions”
within City Personnel Policies.
         (b)   Must have served a minimum of one (1) year within the rank of
Fire/EMS Captain.
         (c)   Must have completed the following NFA coursework:
            1.   Command and Control of Incident Operations.
            2.   Command and Control of Target Hazards.
      (4)   For the rank of Fire/EMS Assistant Chief:
         (a)   Must meet all job requirements for promotion to the rank of
Fire/EMS Assistant Chief as set down by the City of Florence “Job Descriptions”
within City Personnel Policies.
         (b)   Must have served a minimum of one (1) year within the rank of
Fire/EMS Battalion Chief.
      (5)   For the rank of Fire/EMS Chief:
         (a)   Must meet all job requirements for promotion to the rank of
Fire/EMS Chief as set down by the City of Florence “Job Descriptions” within
City Personnel Policies.
         (b)   Must have served a minimum of one (1) year within the rank of
Fire/EMS Assistant Chief or a minimum of one (1) year within the rank of Fire/
EMS Commander.
   (C)   Good faith exception. Staff members may be granted a temporary
exemption from promotional requirements related to the National Fire Academy
(NFA) when, through no fault of their own, they had applied for and did not
receive admittance to a NFA course. A staff member denied admittance to a NFA
course must re-enroll for the required class as soon as possible, but no more
than one year from the date of the promotional requirement.
   (D)   Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause, provision or phrase
of this section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses,
provisions or phrases of this section, or this section as an entirety, it being
the legislative intent that this section shall be valid notwithstanding the
invalidity of any section, sentence, clause, provision or phrase.
(Ord. O-14-12, passed 7-20-12; Am. Ord. O-15-14, passed 6-24-14; Am. Ord. O-20-
17, passed 12-19-17)
CHAPTER 33: OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Veterans Commission
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Members
   
33.03   Funding
   
33.04   Liaison
   
33.05   Bylaws
Boone County Planning Commission; Boards of Adjustment
   
33.15   City as legislative body member
   
33.16   Compensation to citizen members
Parking Violation Hearing Board
   
33.25   Creation
Urban Forest Commission
   
33.35   Creation
   
33.36   Term of office
   
33.37   Compensation
   
33.38   Duties and responsibilities
   
33.39   Operation
   
33.40   Review by City Council
Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council
   
33.50   Establishment
   
33.51   Members
   
33.52   Council's findings
   
33.53   Term of existence
   
33.54   Integration with similar councils
Water Commission
   
33.60   Creation
   
33.61   Corporate purpose
   
33.62   Duties and powers
   
33.63   Staff of Commission
Code Enforcement Board
   
33.70   Definitions
   
33.71   Creation and membership
   
33.72   Jurisdiction
   
33.73   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath and
compensation
   
33.74   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum and alternate Board members
   
33.75   Conflicts of interest
   
33.76   Powers of the Board
   
33.77   Enforcement proceedings
   
33.78   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
33.79   [Reserved]
   
33.80   Appeals; final judgement
   
33.81   Ordinance civil fine schedule
   
33.82   Liens; fines; charges and fees
   
33.83   State statues adopted by reference
   
33.84   Criteria and procedures
VETERANS COMMISSION
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   The Florence Veterans Commission (“Commission”) be and the same is hereby
established to serve as follows:
   (A)   The primary purpose and vision of the Commission is to provide a
support system, community recognition, resources, and comprehensive community
relations to veterans and those who have served this nation. The Commission
shall act as an advisory body to the Mayor regarding military veteran programs,
veteran organizations, and veteran related activities.
   (B)   To communicate with and assist the Mayor and the city in the conduct
of veteran related matters and affairs.
   (C)   To provide veteran related services and/or activities as the Mayor may
from time-to-time direct.
(Ord. O-29-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 33.02 MEMBERS.
   The Commission shall consist of five Commissioners. All Commissioners shall
be citizens and residents of the city and a qualified veteran as defined by the
United States Department of Veterans Affairs. All Commissioners shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. O-29-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 33.03 FUNDING.
   The Commission shall be funded by the city through its annual budget
process. The Commission shall comply with all city rules and regulations
regarding its conduct of financial affairs. The Commission shall not have
authority to incur any debt or other financial obligation, nor bind the city in
the Commission’s name, or in the name of the city, without the written consent
and authorization of the Mayor.
(Ord. O-29-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 33.04 LIAISON.
   The Commission shall create an Office of Commission Liaison (“Commission
Liaison”) who shall be responsible for communicating with the Mayor’s office in
respect to all activities and actions proposed by the Commission. The
Commission Liaison shall also act as an advisor to the Commission and Mayor on
matters relating to veterans affairs.
(Ord. O-29-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 33.05 BYLAWS.
   Immediately upon the Mayor’s appointment of five Commissioners, the
Commission shall adopt bylaws which shall govern the Commission. Commission
bylaws shall be submitted to the Mayor for review and approval.
(Ord. O-29-2023, passed 11-7-23)
BOONE COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION; BOARDS OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 33.15 CITY AS LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.
   The City of Florence, pursuant to an Interlocal Agreement, is a legislative
body member of the Boone County Planning Commission, a county-wide planning
unit established under KRS Chapter 100.
(Ord. O-19-87, passed 6-30-87)
§ 33.16 COMPENSATION TO CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Supplemental Agreement requested by the Boone County Planning
Commission providing and allowing for compensation to citizen members of the
Boone County Planning Commission and Boards of Adjustment is hereby adopted and
approved as a Supplemental Agreement to the Agreement establishing the Boone
County Planning Commission pursuant to KRS Chapter 100 (see §
33.15). The Supplemental Agreement being adopted and approved herein is limited
solely and only to this purpose and does not otherwise affect, change, alter,
or modify any other provision of the original Agreement or any of its other
Supplemental Agreements. A copy of the Supplemental Agreement being approved
and adopted herein is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set out.
   (B)   It is specifically and expressly herein provided that the original
Agreement establishing the Boone County Planning Commission and its
Supplemental Agreements previously adopted are to remain in full force and
effect, the Supplemental Agreement being adopted by this section being limited
solely to the issue of allowing compensation to citizen members of the Boone
County Planning Commission and Boards of Adjustment.
(Ord. O-19-87, passed 6-30-87)
PARKING VIOLATION HEARING BOARD
§ 33.25 CREATION.
   For information on the Parking Violation Hearing Board, see §
70.20.
URBAN FOREST COMMISSION
§ 33.35 CREATION.
   Creation and establishment of an Urban Forest Commission. There is hereby
created and established an Urban Forest Commission for the city which shall
have a membership of five persons, each of which shall be a citizen and
resident of, or a person who works or conducts business in, the city. A
Chairman and four members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval by
the City Council.
(Ord. 0-37-91, passed 10-22-91; Am. Ord. O-22-96, passed 10-29-96; Am. Ord. O-
8-19, passed 4-2-19; Am. Ord. O-9-22, passed 6-14-22)
§ 33.36 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be three
years, however, in order to stagger the expiration of the terms of members,
appointments to the initial Commission shall be as follows: the Chairman -
three years, two members - two years, and two members - one year. In the even
that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (B)   In order to stagger the expiration of the terms of the two new members
appointed to the Commission, the terms of the initial appointments to those
positions shall be as follows: One member - one year; one member - two years.
   (C)   If a member of the Urban Forest Commission fails to attend three
consecutive regularly scheduled meetings without a valid excuse, that member
shall be removed from the Commission.
(Ord. O-37-91, passed 10-22-91; Am. Ord. O-22-96, passed 10-29-96)
§ 33.37 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. O-37-91, passed 10-22-91)
§ 33.38 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Commission to develop and update
and submit to the City Council for approval a plan to address the preservation,
maintenance, and expansion of the urban forest. This plan shall include:
specific recommendations for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees, shrubs and other vegetation in
parks, along streets, and in other public areas; provision for a program for
public information and participation; development of funding resources and
budgetary requirements to implement the plan; recommendations for new or
revised legislation or regulations concerning landscaping and preservation of
vegetation on public and private property in the city; a strategy to pursue the
acquisition and maintenance of the status of "Tree City, USA" as sponsored by
the National Arbor Day Foundation.
   (B)   The Commission, when requested by the City, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. O-37-91, passed 10-22-91)
§ 33.39 OPERATION.
   The Commission shall, with the exception of the office of Chairman, choose
its own officers, make its own procedural rules and regulations, and keep a
journal of its activities. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Ord. O-37-91, passed 10-22-91)
§ 33.40 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Commission. The Commission shall obtain the approval of the
City Council prior to undertaking any activities or assuming any functions,
duties or responsibilities other than those set out in §
33.38 above.
(Ord. O-37-91, passed 10-22-91)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council
("Council") which shall review the delivery of emergency medical services by
way of paramedics, emergency medical technicians, emergency and non-emergency/
transport ambulance services, fire departments, police departments and
emergency dispatch.
(Ord. O-12-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 33.51 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each of the following organizations shall designate one individual to
serve on the Council:
      (1)   Boone County Fire Chief's Association;
      (2)   Kenton County Fire Chief's Association;
      (3)   Campbell County Firefighter's Educational Association;
      (4)   Northern Kentucky Firefighter's Association;
      (5)   St. Elizabeth Hospitals;
      (6)   St. Luke Hospitals;
      (7)   St. Elizabeth Advanced Life Support Service;
      (8)   Northern Kentucky Emergency Medical Service, Inc.;
      (9)   Northern Kentucky Disaster Emergency Services;
      (10)   Northern Kentucky Police Chief's Association;
      (11)   Northern Kentucky City/County Administrators Association;
      (12)   Senior Services of Northern Kentucky, Inc.;
   (B)   These individuals, after nomination by their respective sponsoring
organization, shall be appointed by the city and the Boone Fiscal Court for a
four year term and may succeed themselves.
(Ord. O-12-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 33.52 COUNCIL'S FINDINGS.
   Upon review of the status of the delivery of emergency medical services to
the city and counties, the Council shall make recommendations to the city and
each Fiscal Court as to how they can best achieve consistent and efficient
delivery of emergency medical services. The Council's findings may take the
form of a proposed ordinance to be adopted by the city and the respective
Fiscal Courts.
(Ord. O-12-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 33.53 TERM OF EXISTENCE.
   The Council shall remain in existence after compliance with the above
sections for the purpose of continual monitoring of the state of the delivery
of emergency medical services. The Council shall promulgate rules and
regulations for adoption by the city to achieve the goals of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-12-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 33.54 INTEGRATION WITH SIMILAR COUNCILS.
   This Council shall be integrated with similar councils established by the
Counties of Boone, Kenton and Campbell. The findings and recommendations shall
be made with a view towards creating a unified system for the delivery of
emergency medical services to the three counties.
(Ord. O-12-96, passed 8-13-96)
WATER COMMISSION
§ 33.60 CREATION.
   The city, having determined and elected, acting jointly with the Boone
County Water and Sewer District, to acquire and operate sources of water supply
and to improve and extend them in the manner provided in KRS 74.420 to 74.520,
does hereby propose the creation of a "Water Commission" to be known as the
Boone-Florence Water Commission (the "Commission").
(Ord. O-21-98, passed 10-27-98)
§ 33.61 CORPORATE PURPOSE.
   The Commission shall be a public corporation and a public body corporate and
politic with the powers and duties specified in KRS 74.420 to 74.520 which may,
in its corporate name, contract and be contracted with; sue and be sued, adopt
and alter at its pleasure a corporate seal; and purchase, own, hold and dispose
of all real and personal property necessary for carrying out its corporate
purpose under that statute.
(Ord. O-21-98, passed 10-27-98)
§ 33.62 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   In addition to, but not in limitation of, the general powers stated above,
the Commission shall be empowered to:
   (A)   Appoint or contract for the services of officers, agents and
employees, including engineers, attorneys, accounts, physical agents, or other
professional persons, prescribe their duties and fix their compensation;
   (B)   To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of acquiring sources of water
supply or making improvements and extensions to sources of water supply, which
bonds are payable solely from the revenues derived from water supply contracts;
   (C)   To acquire property through condemnation under the terms and
provisions of KRS Chapter 58 and the Eminent Domain Act of Kentucky; and
   (D)   To contract to supply water to entities represented by the Commission
or other entities pursuant to KRS 74.490 and to establish charges and rates for
water supplied.
(Ord. O-21-98, passed 10-27-98)
§ 33.63 STAFF OF COMMISSION.
   It is the intent of the city in proposing the creation of the Commission to
secure a supply of water for the customers of its system at the lowest possible
cost and to accomplish this end it is necessary to ensure that creation of the
Commission does not result in the employment and equipping of an
administrative, maintenance and professional staff which duplicates the
existing staffing of the city Water and Sewer Commission and the Boone County
Water and Sewer District. Accordingly, in discharging its functions and
responsibilities the Commission shall, to the full extent possible, not employ
administrative, maintenance or professional staffs to perform services which
may be performed by employees and equipment of the city Water and Sewer
Commission and/or the Boone County Water and Sewer District. The Commission
shall, whenever possible, contract with the city Water and Sewer Commission or
the Boone County Water and Sewer District to supply necessary administrative,
professional and maintenance services.
(Ord. O-21-98, passed 10-27-98)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 33.70 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   “ACT.” House Bill 422 of the 2016 Regular Session of the General Assembly.
   “CITY.” The City of Florence, Kentucky.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administra-tive body created and acting under
the authority of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A city police officer, Fire/EMS Chief, Fire/EMS
Assistant Chief, Public Services Director, Public Services Code Enforcement
Officer, Public Services Project Manager, Occupational License Superintendent,
Finance Director, Finance Supervisor, Fire Marshal, City Zoning Administrator
or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation,
and designees of the aforementioned officials.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with subsection
(4) or (6) of Section 8 of The Act;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with subsection
(7) of Section 5 of The Act and that is not appealed to the code enforcement
board as provided in subsection (6) of Section 8 of The Act.
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in subsection (6) of Section 7 of The Act;
      (4)   Created because of a failure of a violator to appear at a hearing
the violator requested to contest the citation as provided in subsection (1) of
Section 8 of The Act.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of the City Council which is a regulation of
a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and shall include
any provision of the Code of Ordinances adopted by the City Council which
embodies all or part of an Ordinance.
   "OWNER." A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.71 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 within the city,
a Code Enforcement Board (the "Board") which shall be composed of five members,
all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year
prior to the date of the members appointment and shall reside there throughout
the term in office.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.72 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall enforce those
city ordinances any code provisions which specifically provide for civil
enforcement including, but not limited to any zoning or nuisance ordinance.
   (B)   The Board shall not have the authority to enforce any ordinance the
violation of which constitutes a criminal offense under the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.73 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH AND
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city,
subject to the approval of City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed to a term of one year.
      (2)   Two members appointed to a term of two years each.
      (3)   Two members appointed to a term of three years each.
      (4)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (C)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of Council within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled
within that time period, the remaining members shall fill the vacancy.
   (D)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency or wilful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the reasons for
removal.
   (E)   All members of the Board must, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (F)   Members of the Board shall be reimbursed for actual expenses and
compensated in the amount of $50 per meeting.
   (G)   No member of the Board may hold any elected or non-elected office,
paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.74 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS: QUORUM AND ALTERNATE BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairman from among its members. The
Chairman shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held as directed by the
Chairman and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815
(5) and the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special
meetings and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky
Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote of
each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.75 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Board who has any direct or indirect financial or personal
interest in any interest to be decided shall disclose the nature of the
interest and shall be disqualified from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.76 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
Ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Board or an assigned hearing officer, may be served by
any Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a City Ordinance or Code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To issue remedial orders and impose civil fines, as authorized,
against any person who is found to have violated an Ordinance over which the
Board has jurisdiction.
   (G)   To make any recommendations to City Council deemed necessary by the
Board.
   (H)   Hearing officer.
      (1)   The Board may assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 8 of The Act.
      (2)   (a)   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board, including the
Chair, may be assigned as a hearing officer.
         (b)   An individual that is not a member of the Code Enforcement Board
may be assigned by the Code Enforcement Board as a hearing officer as long as
the individual does not hold any elected or appointed office or position of
employment with a unit of the city.
      (3)   Any person assigned to be a hearing officer by a Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process, as specified in the
ordinance creating, the Code Enforcement Board. The experience or training
shall include, at a minimum, acquired knowledge regarding a party's fundamental
due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearings;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (4)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to
the hearing to which the officer is assigned.
      (5)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer under this section shall
conform to the procedural requirements of subsections (1) to (5) of Section 8
of The Act.
      (6)   (a)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and enter final orders, consistent with the authority
granted to the Code Enforcement Board under subsection (4) of Section 8 of The
Act.
         (b)   The findings of fact, conclusions of law, and final order shall
be forwarded within 24 hours of entry to the alleged violator in the manner
required by subsection (5) of Section 8 of The Act and to the Code Enforcement
Board.
      (7)   A final order issued by a hearing officer under this section may be
appealed by the alleged violator to the Code Enforcement Board. The appeal
shall be filed in writing to the Code Enforcement Board within seven days of
the receipt of the final order. The failure to file an appeal within seven days
shall render the order entered by the hearing officer final for all purposes
and an individual receiving a final order under this section shall be required
to exhaust the administrative remedy of appeal to the Code Enforcement Board
before appealing to District Court as authorized under Section 9 of the Act.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.77 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Board shall only be initiated by
the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When a Code Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of an ordinance, the Officer is authorized to issue a citation to the
offender. A Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of issuing a citation, give a
notice of violation, which shall serve to notify the violator to remedy the
violation within the time specified. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy
the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Issuance of a citation shall be by:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation was issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail of the
United States Postal Service to the owner of record of the property if no one
is on the premises at the time the citation is issued.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent a Code Enforcement Officer,
as defined in §
33.70 herein, from taking immediate action to remedy a violation of its
ordinances or codes when there is reason to believe that the violation
constitutes a public nuisance or a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible. A citation may also be issued for the
violation.
   (E)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed or discovered;
      (4)   Brief facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the ordinance number violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Board
or hearing officer and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order of the District Court to contest the citation
and that the determination that the violation was committed shall be final.
   (F)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Board by delivering a copy of the citation to the City
Clerk. The Code Enforcement Officer, hearing officer, or Code Enforcement Board
may also elect to provide notice of the issuance of the citation to any
lienholder with an interest in the subject premises.
   (G)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine and remedying the violation or requesting, in writing, a hearing to
contest a citation. The request for a hearing shall be delivered to the City
Clerk. The request shall include the name and address of the person requesting
the hearing. If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven
calendar days the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and any determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
In this event, the citation, as issued, shall be deemed a final order
determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court. Notice of the final
order shall be provided to the cited violator in tire manner set forth in
subsection (5) of Section 8 of The Act.
   (H)   Citations shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.78 HEARING; NOTICE: AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Board shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven calendar days before the date of the hearing, the
Board shall notify the requester of the date, time and place of the hearing.
The notice may be given by regular first class mail, certified mail, return
receipt requested; by personal delivery; or, by leaving the notice at the
person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice. The
Board may also elect to provide notice of hearing to any lienholders with an
interest in the subject premises.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Board who fails to appear
at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the
right to a hearing to contest the citation and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final. In this event, the citation, as issued,
shall be deemed a final order determining the violation was committed and
impose the civil fine set forth in the citation and the alleged violator shall
be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
Notice of the final order shall be provided to the cited violator in the manner
set forth in subsection (5) of Section 8 of The Act.
   (D)   Each case that is the subject of a hearing may be presented by an
attorney selected by the city or by a member of the administrative staff of the
city. An attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may
represent the city by presenting cases at the hearing, but in no case shall an
attorney serve in both capacities.
   (E)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   If the Board conducts the hearing, or upon the receipt of
recommendations of a hearing officer pursuant to subsection (6) of Section 5 of
the Act, then the Board shall determine, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. When the Board
determines that a violation has been committed, the Board may issue an order
upholding the citation and may order the offender to do either or both of the
following:
      (1)   Pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum authorized by the
ordinance; or
      (2)   Remedy a continuing violation within a specified time to avoid the
imposition of a fine as authorized by ordinance.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing of the Board shall be reduced to
writing which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered to that person by regular first- class mail, certified mail, return
receipt requested, by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of the order at
that person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the order.
   (H)   If the Board is reviewing a final order entered by a hearing officer
as authorized by subsection (7) of Section 5 of The Act, the Board shall review
the record created before the hearing officer and determine whether there is
substantial evidence on the record to support a finding by the hearing officer
that a violation was committed. If the Board determines that there is not
substantial evidence on the record, it shall issue an order dismissing the
citation. If the Board determines that there is substantial evidence on the
record, it shall issue a final order upholding the order entered by the hearing
officer. The provisions of divisions (A) and (F) of this section shall apply to
any appeal hearing conducted pursuant to this section.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. O-10-
16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.79 [RESERVED].
§ 33.80 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order may be made to the County District
Court within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be
initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the
same manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
The District Court shall review the final order de novo.
   (B)   A judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit Court
in accordance with the rules of civil procedure.
   (C)   If no appeal from a final order of the Board is filed within the time
period set forth in division (A) above, the order shall be final.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.81 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   Ordinance civil fine schedule. Violations of Ordinances that are enforced by
the City Board shall constitute a civil offense and pursuant to Section 2(2)(b)
of the Act shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   A specific civil fine that will be imposed for each offense if the
person who has committed the offense does not contest the citation as follows:
Violation                            1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animal Control                       $25         $50         $100
Zoning                               $50         $150        $300
Nuisance                             $50         $150        $300
Property Maintenance Code Violations $50         $150        $300
Parking                              $30         $30         $30
Occupational License                 $50         $150        $300
Life Safety Code Violations          $50         $150        $300
Fire Prevention Code Violations      $50         $150        $300
Chronic Nuisance Property            $500        $500        $500
Special Events Policy                $500        $500        $500
Other                                $50         $150        $300
 
   (B)   A maximum civil fine that may be imposed for each offense if the
citation is contested under subsection (6) of Section 7 of the Act, as follows:
Violation                            1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animal Control                       $100        $100        $100
Zoning                               $500        $1,000      2,000
Nuisance                             $500        $1,000      2,000
Property Maintenance Code Violations $500        1,000       2,000
Parking                              $100        200         $500
Occupational License                 $500        $1,000      $2,000
Life Safety Code Violations          1,000       $1,500      $2,000
Fire Prevention Code Violations      1,000       1,500       2,000
Chronic Nuisance Property            $5,000      $5,000      $5,000
Special Events Policy                $5,000      $5,000      $5,000
Other                                $500        $1,000      $2,000
 
   (C)   (1)   For violations of Ordinance No. O-1-14, the Chronic Nuisance
Property Ordinance (§§
102.01 through
102.99), the Board may impose a penalty of not less than $500, nor more than
$5,000 for each violation.
      (2)   In addition the Board may, applying the criteria set forth in
Ordinance No. O-33-05, recommend to the City Council that judicial proceedings
are necessary with respect to such violations.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.82 LIENS; FINES; CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by any person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by subsection (8) of Section 1 of the
Act, or by a final court to have committed a violation of a city ordinance. The
lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the
regularity, of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the legal rate until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
court, School Board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including an action to foreclose.
   (D)   Shall continue for ten years following the date of the nonappealable
final order, or final judgment of the court.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the
enforcement of this subchapter. The city may bring a civil action against the
person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall otherwise affect the rights or
obligations between the owner of the property and those persons who claim a
security interest in the property.
      (1)   The city shall implement a system for notification to lienholders
that meets the minimum requirements of division (F)(2) of this section and
shall comply with the procedures to permit remedial action by lienholders as
provided in division (F)(3) of this section in order to obtain and maintain the
lien priority over previously filed liens granted in Section 10 of the Act.
      (2)   The city shall create a notification system that provides
lienholders and others that elect to do so with electronic notifications of all
final orders entered pursuant to KRS 65,8801 to 65.8839. The system shall meet
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   An individual or entity may register with the city to receive
information on each final order by providing a name, mailing address, phone
number, and an electronic mailing address to the city. The city shall accept
this information in any form submitted by a registrant. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update its contact information
with the city, except that the city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
the city receives that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional in order to provide the registrant an opportunity to submit an
updated electronic mailing address:
         (b)   No less than once a month but no more frequently than once per
week, the city shall send electronic mail notification of all final orders
issued pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 since the last date
of notification to each party registered pursuant to division (F)(2)(a) of this
section. The notification shall, at a minimum, include or provide an electronic
link to a document or database meeting the requirements of this division that
includes:
            1.   The name of the person charged with a violation;
            2.   The physical address of the premises where the violation
occurred;
            3.   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises
where the violation occurred;
            4.   A specific description of the citation leading to the final
order, including the citation detail set forth in paragraphs (a) to (h) of
subsection (4) of Section 7 of The Act, which may be satisfied by including a
copy of the full citation;
            5.   The    findings of the final order, including the penalty or
penalties imposed by the final order, which may be satisfied by providing a
copy of the full final order; and
            6.   The status of the final order in regards to its ability to be
appealed pursuant to Section 9 of The Act, except that the city shall provide
an update to registrants if an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to
Section 9 of this Act.
         (c)   The city shall post the notification required under division (F)
(2)(b) of this section or provide a summary of the information regarding each
final order required by division (F)(2)(b) of this section in a conspicuous
place on its public Web site, which shall be affiliated with the city and
contain other information about the city within ten days of the issuance of the
final order. If the city posts using summary form:
            1.   The summary shall be calculated to reasonably allow
identification of the specific properties which may be impacted by the lien;
            2.   Upon request, the city shall provide the complete record of a
final order created under division (F)(2)(b) of this section without charge;
and
         (d)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section
for a period of ten years following their issuance.
      (3)   (a)   A lienholder of record may, within 45 days from the date of
issuance of notification under division (F)(2) of this section, correct the
violation if it has not already been abated, or elect to pay all civil fines
assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs.
This section shall not prohibit the city from taking immediate action if
necessitated under Section 12 of The Act.
         (b)   The lien provided by Section 10 of The Act shall not take
precedence over previously recorded liens if:
            1.   The city failed to comply with the requirements of division
(F)(2) of this section for notification of the final order; or
            2.   A prior lienholder corrected the violation or paid all civil
fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the city
in connection with the enforcement of this subchapter, including abatement
costs within 45 days as provided in division (F)(1) of this section.
         (c)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded
liens under the circumstances outlined, in division (F)(2)(b) of this section,
shall if the final order remains partially unsatisfied, take precedence over
all other subsequent liens except liens for state, county, school board and,
city taxes.
         (d)   Nothing contained in this subsection shall prohibit the city
from recording a lien before the 45- day period established in division (F)(2)
(a) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period established in division (F)(2)(a) of this
section, the city shall release the lien in the County Clerk's office where the
lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.83 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the terms, conditions and procedures of the Act relating to the
organization and powers of the Board, enforcement, procedure, appeals and other
matters are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated herein by reference as
if fully rewritten.
(Ord. O-07-02, passed 4-30-02; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 33.84 CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Criteria. In the event the Board should consider the need to recommend
to Council that judicial proceedings are necessary in order to enforce any
particular lien for payment of unpaid civil fines, the Board is hereby directed
to carefully consider the following factors before recommending judicial
proceedings.
      (1)   Whether the violator has been given notice of the violation as
required by §§
33.76 and
33.78.
      (2)   Whether a civil suit seeking a money damages only against the
violator or a civil proceeding seeking a judicially ordered sale of the subject
property, will be the appropriate course of action.
      (3)   Whether the conduct of the violator has demonstrated indifference
to or disregard for the necessity of compliance with the applicable city
ordinance by statement, conduct, or inaction with regard to the violation.
      (4)   Whether the violation(s) which is/are the subject of the liens
constitute a present danger to the public health, safety or welfare of the
residents in the vicinity, or materially interfere with the peaceful enjoyment
of adjacent property.
      (5)   The period of time for which the violation has existed must be
considered in relation to the severity of the threat to the public health,
safety or welfare of the residents in the vicinity.
      (6)   Whether three convictions of the same violation have been found to
exist since the enactment of these criteria.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Upon notification to the Board by the City Clerk that liens have
been filed in accordance with §
33.82, the Board, no sooner than 30 days after the Clerk’s notification, may
consider whether the above factors exist. If so, it may make a formal written
recommendation to the City Council that judicial proceedings be initiated. All
liens filed prior to the enactment of this section shall be so considered by
the Board within 60 days of the effective date hereof.
      (2)   The Board’s recommendation must be accompanied by written findings
of fact in support of the recommendation. These findings must clearly
demonstrate which of the above criteria have been met. In all cases, criteria
specified in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) must be met in order to support
the recommendation. Further, either criteria specified in divisions (A)(4), (A)
(5) or (A)(6) must be met, individually or in combination.
      (3)   The Board’s recommendation must state whether it is recommending
either (a) a civil suit before the court of proper jurisdiction seeking money
damages only, or (b) a civil suit seeking monetary damages and an order of sale
of the subject real estate.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a recommendation from the Board that judicial
proceedings be initiated, City Council may follow the recommendation, seek
different relief from that recommended by the Board, or take no action in
response to the recommendation.
(Ord. O-33-05, passed 12-20-05)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Personnel Policies and Procedures adopted by reference
   
34.02   Participation in County Employees Retirement System
   
34.03   Alcohol and drug abuse policy
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Personnel Policies and Procedures, a copy of which is incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth herein is hereby approved and adopted and
shall apply to all city employees and officers.
   (B)   The positions of full-time and part-time employment with the city are
described in said Policies and Procedures. The number of persons authorized to
be employed in each such position is hereby established as listed below. The
establishment of new or different full-time and part-time positions or a change
in the number of persons to be employed in any such position shall occur only
upon authorization by the City Council.
POSITIONS                   NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED
REGULAR FULL-TIME POSITIONS EMPLOYEES
POSITIONS                                      NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED
REGULAR FULL-TIME POSITIONS                    EMPLOYEES
City Coordinator                               1
Administration Director/City Administrator     1
Director of Community Development              1
Director of Business Development               1
Risk Manager/Community Projects Administrator  1
Community Services Coordinator                 1
Community Services Administrator               1
Human Resources Coordinator                    1
Human Services Administrator                   1
City Clerk                                     1
City Clerk/Public Relations Administrator      1
Finance Director                               1
Senior Accountant                              1
Staff Accountant                               1
Finance Clerk                                  3
Occ License/Finance Supervisor                 1
Administrative Clerk                           5
Administrative Assistant/Assistant City Clerk  3
Records Clerk                                  1
Public Services Director                       1
Project Manager                                1
GIS Manager                                    1
Public Infrastructure Analyst                  3
Community Services Superintendent              1
AMI Coordinator                                1
Code Enforcement Officer                       4
Infrastructure Support Services Superintendent 1
Operational Services Superintendent            1
Grounds Manager                                1
Utility Manager                                2
Buildings Manager                              1
Fleet Manager                                  1
Transportation Manager                         1
Inspector                                      2
GIS Administrator                              1
Mechanic                                       2
Field Technician                               25
Utility Operator                               15
Lead Technician                                3
Lead Operator                                  2
Police Chief                                   1
Police Captain                                 2
Police Lieutenant                              3
PERSONNEL POLICIES                              
POSITIONS                                      NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED
REGULAR FULL-TIME POSITIONS                    EMPLOYEES
Police Sergeant                                9
Police Corporal                                8
Police Officer                                 53
Property Clerk                                 1
Public Safety Data Analyst                     1
Fire/EMS Chief                                 1
Assistant Fire/EMS Chief                       2
Fire/EMS Battalion Chief                       6
Fire/EMS Captain                               13
Fire/EMS Lieutenant                            12
Firefighter EMT and Paramedic                  63*
Total                                          272
 
 
POSITIONS                   NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES
REGULAR PART-TIME POSITIONS
Finance Department          1
Risk Manager                1
Administrative Clerk        1
Total                       3
 
*   No more than 39 shall be assigned to Paramedic designation
Note: The number of authorized positions may be exceeded only in the following
instances:
   When the Police Department has received a personnel action form completed by
an employee advising that he/she will retire or resign within the ensuing 12
months or less, a Police Officer candidate may be hired prior to that
retirement date (but not more than 12 months before that date) so that the
newly hired officer can attend the Police Academy, go through the Florence
Police Department Field Training Program, and be fully trained to replace the
retiring officer by his/her retirement date.
   When the Administrative, Fire/EMS, or Public Services Department has
received a personnel action form completed by a "key employee" advising that
he/she will retire or resign within the ensuing 12 months or less, a candidate
for that position may be hired not more than 30 days before that date so that
the replacement can receive training from the employee vacating the position. A
"key employee" is defined as one whose job tasks are unique and critical to the
operation of the department, and approved as such by the City Coordinator.
   (C)   Fire promotions. If a paramedic is promoted to a lieutenant position
or is a lieutenant that is filling a paramedic position, that person will go
into step 2 of the captain's pay grade. If the same person is promoted to
captain in the future, they will stay in whatever step they are currently in of
the captain's pay grade.
   (D)   Authorized positions. All departments may hire, with administration
authorization, up to two additional personnel over the authorized position
limit with the understanding that the authorized position limit shall be
returned to through attrition.
(Ord. O-3-90, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord.
O-8-90, passed 4-10-90; Am. Ord. O-20-90, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. O-26-90,
passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-25-91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-47-91, passed 12-
10-91; Am. Ord. O-4-92, passed 2-25-92; Am. Ord. O-1-92, passed 1-21-92; Am.
Ord. O-2-93, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. O-18-93, passed 8-10-93; Am. Ord. O-21-93,
passed 9-14-93; Am. Ord. O-8-94, passed 6-28-94; Am. Ord. O-9-94, passed 6-28-
94; Am. Ord. O-19-94, passed 8-23-94; Am. Ord. O-11-95, passed 6-27-95; Am.
Ord. O-12-95, passed 8-8-95; Am. Ord. O-14-95, passed 6-27-95; Am. Ord. O-22-
95, passed 11-28- 95; Am. Ord. O-24-95, passed 12-12-95; Am. Ord. O-15-96,
passed 8-27-96; Am. Ord. O-1-97, passed 1-28-97; Am. Ord. O-6-97, passed 2-25-
97; Am. Ord. O-17-97, passed 7-0-16-98, passed 7-28-98; Am. Ord. 0-2-98, passed
10-27-98; Am. Ord. 0-23-98, passed 10-27- 98; Am. Ord. 0-27-98, passed 12-22-
98; Am. Ord. O-2-99, passed 2-25-99; Am. Ord. O-13-99, passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord.
O-15-99, passed 7-27-99; Am. Ord. O-28-99, passed 12-14-99; Am. Ord. O-07-00,
passed 3-28-00; Am. Ord. O-16-00, passed 6-27-00; Am. Ord. O-09-01, passed 6-
26-01; Am. Ord. O-18-01, passed 10-23-01; Am. Ord. O-10-02, passed 5-14-02; Am.
Ord. O-14-02, passed 6-25-02; Am. Ord. O-18-02, passed 7-16-02; Am. Ord. O-14-
03, passed 6-24-03; Am. Ord. O-20-03, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. O-23-03, passed
10-14-03; Am. Ord. O-24-03, passed 10-21-03; Am. Ord. O-01-04, passed 1-20-04;
Am. Ord. O-33-04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-01-05, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. O-
04-05, passed 3-22-05; Am. Ord. O-13-05, passed 6-28-05; Am. Ord. O-26-05,
passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. O-20-05, passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. O-29- 05, passed
12-13-05; Am. Ord. O- 34-05, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. O-15-06, passed 6-27-06;
Am. Ord. O-22-06, passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. O-27-06, passed 10-24-06; Am. Ord.
O-26-07, passed 11-13-07; Am. Ord. O-4-08, passed 3-25-08; Am. Ord. O-11-08,
passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. O-8-09, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. O-11-09, passed 7-28-
09; Am. Ord. O-15-09, passed 10-6-09; Am. Ord. O-2-10, passed 3-10-10; Am. Ord.
O-7-10, passed 6-22-10; Am. Ord. O-9-10, passed 8-10-10; Am. Ord. O-17-10,
passed 12-21- 10; Am. Ord. O-3-11, passed 3-15- 11; Am. Ord. O-9-11, passed 6-
28- 11; Am. Ord. O-10-11, passed 6-28-11; Am. Ord. O-13-11, passed 8-23-11; Am.
Ord. O-13-12, passed 6-19-12; Am. Ord. O-20-12, passed 12-11-12; Am. Ord. O-3-
13, passed 3-26-13; Am. Ord. O-10-13, passed 6-25-13; Am. Ord. O-5-14, passed
2-25-14; Am. Ord. O-10-14, passed 4-8-14; Am. Ord. O-16-14, passed 6-24-14; Am.
Ord. O-27-14, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord O-2-15, passed 2-17-15; Am. Ord. O-10-
15, passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. O-16-15, passed 10-13-15; Am. Ord. O-3-16, passed
3-1-16; Am. Ord. O-11-16, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. O-17-16, passed 12-6-16; Am.
Ord. O-11-17, passed 6-13-17; Am. Ord. O-13-17, passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. O-8-
18, passed 6-19-18; Am. Ord. O-3-19, passed 1-29-19; Am. Ord. O-09-19, passed
4-23-19; Am. Ord. O-12-19, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. O-23-19, passed 12-17-19;
Am. Ord. O-8-20, passed 6-16-20; Am. Ord. O-8-21, passed 6-22-21; Am. Ord. O-
15-21, passed 9-7-21; Am. Ord. O-12-22, passed 6-21-22; Am. Ord. O-21-22,
passed 10-18-22; Am. Ord. O-17-2023, passed 6-27-23; Am. Ord. O-21-2023, passed
8-8-23; Am. Ord. O-33-2023, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord. O-4-2024, passed 3-4-24;
Am Ord. O-9-2024, passed 5-14-24; Am. Ord. O-13-2024, passed 6-17-24; Am. Ord.
O-18-2024, passed 10-22-24; Am. Ord. O-25-2024, passed 12-17-24; Am. Ord. O-26-
2024, passed 12-17-24)
§ 34.02 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The pension plans established for the city's police officers and
firefighters under KRS Chapter 95 is hereby frozen effective August 1, 1988, to
participation by those existing employees who are then participating therein
and who file with the city on or before October 31, 1988, a written election to
continue participating therein in lieu of participating in the County Employees
Retirement System (hereafter known as CERS).
   (B)   The city hereby elects to participate in CERS effective August 1,
1988, and authorizes the Mayor to execute the appropriate instruments to
effectuate such election.
   (C)   All employees now participating in said existing city pension plan are
hereby authorized to terminate such participation and transfer to CERS.
   (D)   The city shall continue to fund and manage its said existing pension
plan for the benefit of any employees electing to continue therein and those
who are entitled to benefits in existing pension plan.
   (E)   Employees hired after August 1, 1988, who are otherwise eligible to
participate in the city pension plan, shall participate only in CERS.
   (F)   The city hereby adopts the terms and provisions of the CERS under KRS
78.510 through 78.852, elects the alternate participation plan under KRS 78.530
(3), and declares its intention to enter into an agreement with the Board of
Trustees of CERS for the amortization of the cost of such prior service credit
over a period of 15 years commencing on or about August 1, 1988.
   (G)   The individual employee accounts in the existing city pension plan
shall be transferred to CERS for credit to the respective employee's individual
account in CERS, pursuant to KRS 78.531(1) and (2), upon the election of such
employees to participate in CERS.
   (H)   It is hereby certified to the Board of Trustees of CERS that all
police officers and firefighters presently employed by the city are deemed to
be working in hazardous positions for purposes of KRS 61.592, and all police
officers and firefighters employed after August 1, 1988 shall, if otherwise
qualified, be eligible for CERS hazardous position coverage.
   (I)   Effective September 27, 1994, all employees working under hazardous
duty job classifications of the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department
will transfer from the existing nonhazardous (general) coverage in the County
Employees Retirement System of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to hazardous duty
coverage. Upon such transfer, contributions to be paid for affected employees
are as follows:
      (1)   18.46% (current rate) of employee's gross wages to be paid by the
employer (may be changed by the Board of Trustees of the Kentucky Retirement
Systems).
      (2)   7% (current rate) of employee's gross wages to be paid by the
employee (may be changed by Kentucky General Assembly).
   (J)   The city will comply with all statutory requirements necessary to make
the County Employees Retirement System hazardous duty coverage available to all
employees who are working under approved positions within the Fire/Emergency
Medical Services Department of the city.
(Ord. O-16-88, passed 7-26-88; Am. Ord. O-25-94, passed 9-27-94)
§ 34.03 ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY.
   The "City of Florence Alcohol and Drug Abuse Policy" is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. O-1-96, passed 2-27-96; Am. Ord. O-14-99, passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. O-9-
09, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. O-11-17, passed 6-13-17)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
35.01   Rules and regulations
   
35.02   Definitions; identifications
   
35.03   Requests
   
35.04   Exceptions
   
35.05   Publication requirements
§ 35.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations are established to govern the
access of persons to the public records of the city.
   (B)   A copy of these rules and regulations shall be displayed in a
prominent location accessible to the public in the Government Center Building.
(Ord. O-30-76, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. O-01-00, passed 1-25-00)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS; IDENTIFICATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CUSTODIAN." The City Clerk.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The City Clerk.
   "PUBLIC RECORDS." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation, regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by the city. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any records owned
or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are not
related to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by state or
local authority. (KRS 61.870)
   (B)   The principal office of the city is located at 8100 Ewing Boulevard,
Florence, Kentucky, 41042.
   (C)   The regular hours and work days of the city are 9:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday of each week, excluding legal holidays.
   (D)   The title and address of the Official Custodian is the City Clerk,
City of Florence, 8100 Ewing Boulevard, Kentucky, 41042.
(Ord. O-30-76, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. O-01-00, passed 1-25-00)
§ 35.03 REQUESTS.
   The procedures to be followed in requesting public records are as follows.
   (A)   All public records, except those excluded by §
35.04, shall be open for inspection to the following persons:
      (1)   Any person shall have access to the public records;
      (2)   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him
or in which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
35.04.
   (B)   All public records, except those excluded by §
35.04, shall be open for inspection under the following conditions:
      (1)   Any person shall have the right to inspect public records during
the regular office hours or by receiving copies of the public records through
the mail. The city shall mail copies of the public records to a person whose
residence or principal place of business is outside Boone County after he
precisely describes the public records which are readily available within the
city. If the person requesting the public records requests that copies of the
records be mailed, the Official Custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of
all fees and the cost of mailing.
      (2)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices without the written permission of the Official Custodian, nor shall any
person damage or disorganize the records.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit a written application describing the
records to be inspected.
      (4)   If the Official Custodian does not have custody or control of the
public record requested, he or she shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the custodian of the public record, if such facts are
known to him or her.
      (5)   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the Official Custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days from receipt of the application, unless a detailed
explanation of the cause is given for further delay and the place, time and
earliest date on which the public record will be available for inspection.
      (6)   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing
voluminous public records or if the Official Custodian has reason to believe
that repeated requests are intended to disrupt other essential functions of the
city, the Official Custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public
records or to mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
      (7)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make
abstracts of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of
all written public records. When copies are requested, the Official Custodian
may require a written request and advance payment of the prescribed fee. If the
applicant desires copies of public records other than written records, the
Official Custodian shall permit the applicant to duplicate such records,
however, the Official Custodian may ensure that such duplication will not
damage or alter the records. Public records maintained by the city in an
electronic format shall be made available for copying in accordance with the
procedures outlined in KRS 61.874.
(KRS 61.874(1))
      (8)   The fee for the city to make copies of public records shall be $.10
per page which is the actual cost thereof not including the cost of staff
required.
      (9)   The Official Custodian upon any request for records made under KRS
61.870 to 61.884, and these rules and regulations, shall determine within three
days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after the receipt of
any such request whether to comply with the request and shall notify in writing
the person making the request, within the three-day period, of the decision. A
response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any record shall include a
statement of the specific exception authorizing the withholding of the record
and a brief explanation of how the exception applies to the record withheld.
The response shall be issued by the Official Custodian or under his authority,
and it shall constitute final city action.
      (10)    A person desiring to contest a denial of inspection of a public
record may seek review of the denial by the Attorney General under the
provisions of KRS 61.880 or file suit in the Boone Circuit Court under the
provisions of KRS 61.882.
      (11)   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate provisions of state law and these rules and
regulations.
(Ord. O-30-76, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. O-01-00,  passed 1-25-00)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 61.874, 61.880 and 64.872
§ 35.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of
state law and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to the city and complied and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially dis-closed to the city or required by
the city to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially dis-closed to the city or required by the
city to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS Ch.
154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions granted in subparagraphs(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by another statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. Provided, however, that this exemption shall not include
those records pertaining to applications to agencies for permits or licenses
necessary to do business or to expand business operations within the state,
except as provided in division (A)(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed in conjunction with the
regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not limited
to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which disclose the
agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals, engineering or feasibility
estimates and evaluations made by or for the city relative to the acquisition
of property, until such time as all of the property has been acquired. The law
of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the city by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of state law, public records exempted under this
provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a decision is
made to take no action; however, records or information compiled and maintained
by the county attorneys or Commonwealth's attorneys pertaining to criminal
investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the provisions of
state law and shall remain exempted after enforcement action, including
litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the Official
Custodian of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by
state law;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of the city;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.    Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.    Vulnerability assessments;
            3.    Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.    Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.    Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred
to in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “TERRORIST ACT” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.    Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division(A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to prohibit disclosure
of statistical information not descriptive of any readily identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a city employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and to copy any record including preliminary
and other supporting documentation that relates to him. The records shall
include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or to copy any examination or any documents relating
to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the nonexcepted
material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between the city and
other public agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental
need or is necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   If amendments are made to the exemption section of state law (KRS
61.878), such amendments shall control the language of this section.
(Ord. 0-30-76, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. O-01-00, passed 1-25-00)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 61.878
§ 35.05 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 83A.060(7), no ordinance shall be
enforceable until published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
CHAPTER 36: PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
36.01   Procurement procedures
 
§ 36.01 PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   City Council hereby adopts the purchase and procurement procedures set
forth in KRS 424.260 to enter into a contract, lease, or other agreement for
the purchase of materials, supplies, equipment or contractual services other
than exempt professional services in excess of the statutorily authorized
purchase amount and that such purchases or expenditures in excess of the
statutory limit set forth in KRS 424.260 comply with all advertisement and bid
requirements prescribed therein.
   (B)   Any purchase involving the expenditure of money, even if less than the
statutory limit of KRS 424.260, shall not be made without review and approval
by the city Chief Financial Officer/Human Resource (CFO/HR) and/or Finance
Director to insure that any such expenditure or purchase is within the
authorized budget of the city.
(Ord. O-13-2023, passed 5-2-23)
CHAPTER 37: AD VALOREM TAXATION
Section
   
37.01   Tax levy on property, real estate
   
37.02   Tax levy for police and firefighters
   
37.03   Special Mall Road improvement assessment tax
   
37.04   Billing and collection
   
37.05   Discount for early payment
   
37.06   Delinquent payments
   
37.07   Disposition of collected money
   
37.08   Recovery of unpaid taxes
   
37.09   Franchise tax
§ 37.01 TAX LEVY ON PROPERTY, REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   A tax in an amount as established by City Council on an annual basis
and based on each $100 of value as of January 1 of each year, is hereby levied
upon all real and personal property (except for motor vehicles and watercraft)
located within the corporate limits of the city; and on all personal estate or
property except such tangible personal property as has an actual bona fide
situs without the corporate limits of the city on the first day of January of
each year; and upon all franchises taxable by the city. All of the taxes hereby
levied are to be assessed in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   A tax in an amount established by City Council annually and based on
each $100 of the fair cash value as of January 1 of each year on all shares of
stock of all state banks and trust companies incorporated under the laws of
this state and located within the corporate limits of the city is hereby
levied. These taxes are to be assessed in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13- 92; Am. Ord. O-28-93,
passed 10- 26-93; Am. Ord. O-27-94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. O-18-95, passed
9-26-95; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed 10-1-96; Am. Ord. O-19-97, passed 10-28-97;
Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-19-99, passed 9-28-99; Am. Ord.
O-27-99, passed 12-14-99; Am. Ord. O-19-00, passed 10-10- 00; Am. Ord. O-15-01,
passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. O-19-01, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. O-22-02, passed 9-
24-02; Am. Ord. O-21-03, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. O-26-04, passed 9-14-04; Am.
Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-
07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. O-11-13, passed
9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-12-16, passed 9-13-16;
Am. Ord. O-14-17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. O-
16-19, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. O-16-21,
passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. O-27-2023, passed 9-
26-23; Am. Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.02 TAX LEVY FOR POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 78.530(3)(c), an annual tax in an amount established
by City Council annually and based on each $100 of value as of January 1 of
each year, is hereby levied upon all real and personal estate or property
located within the corporate limits of the city; and on all personal estate or
property (except for motor vehicles and watercraft) except such tangible
personal property as has an actual bona fide situs without the corporate limits
of the city on the first day of January of each year; and upon all franchises
taxable by the city. All of these taxes hereby levied are to be assessed in the
manner provided by law.
   (B)   This annual tax is levied for the purpose of payment of the city's
obligation for current service costs for police and firemen in the county
employees retirement system incurred after the date of participation by the
city in the system. Funds, when collected, shall be used only for the purpose
stated above.
   (C)   The tax levied in this section is a continuation of the tax which had
been devoted to funding pension obligations under the locally administered
Police and Fireman's Pension Fund of the city prior to participation in the
system.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. O-28-93, passed
10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-27- 94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed 10-1-96;
Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord.
O-22-02, passed 9-24-02; Am. Ord. O-21-03, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. O-26-04,
passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed 9-
26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am.
Ord. O-11-13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. O-15-15, passed 9-15-15; Am. Ord. O-14-
17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. O-16-19, passed
9-3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am.
Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.03 SPECIAL MALL ROAD IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to this section and Ordinance O-46-73, a special Mall Road
improvement assessment tax shall be levied against certain designated taxpayers
in the amounts as set forth by City Council on an annual basis.
   (B)   The discount provided for in §
37.05 below does not apply to the special Mall Road assessment tax.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed
10-1-96)
§ 37.04 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   All taxes herein levied and provided for shall be collected by the Finance
Department and shall be payable at the office of the Finance Director. Billing
for such taxes shall be in the same form and manner as billing for county ad
valorem taxes.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. O-28-93, passed
10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-27- 94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed 10-1-96;
Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord.
O-22-02, passed 9-24-02; Am. Ord. O-21-03, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. O-26-04,
passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed 9-
26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am.
Ord. O-11-13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-14-
17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. O-16-19, passed
9-3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am.
Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.05 DISCOUNT FOR EARLY PAYMENT.
   A discount of 2% of the total of any and all taxpayers' tax bills shall be
deducted from the amount of those tax bills if paid in full on or before
November 1 of each year.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. O-28-93, passed
10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-27- 94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed 10-1-96;
Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord.
O-22-02, passed 9-24-02; Am. Ord. O-21-03, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. O-26-04,
passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed 9-
26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am.
Ord. O-11-13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-14-
17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord O-16-19, passed 9-
3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am.
Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.06 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   All taxes herein levied and provided for shall be due and payable upon
passage and publication of this subchapter, and any and all such taxes
remaining unpaid after January 1 of each year shall bear a penalty of 12% plus
interest on the amount of taxes at the rate of 12% per annum from the first day
of January until paid.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. O-28-93, passed
10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-27-94, passed 10-25- 94; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed 10- 1-
96; Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-15-01, passed 10-9-01; Am.
Ord. O-22-02, passed 9-24-02; Am. Ord. O-21-03, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. O-26-
04, passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed
9-26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12;
Am. Ord. O-11-13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-
14-17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. O-16-19,
passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-
22; Am. Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.07 DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED MONEY.
   All of the taxes herein levied are, when levied, assessed, and collected, to
be placed in the General Fund and used for the general purposes of the city.
(Ord. O-26-89, passed 10-4-89; Am. Ord. O-25-90, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. O-36-
91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-28-92, passed 10-13- 92; Am. Ord. O-28-93,
passed 10- 26-93; Am. Ord. O-27-94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. O-18-96, passed
10-1-96; Am. Ord. 0-20-98, passed 10-13-98; Am. Ord. O-21- 05, passed 9-27-05;
Am. Ord. O-24-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. O-20-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. O-
16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. O-11-13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14,
passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-14-17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-10-18, passed 9-4-
18; Am. Ord. O-16-19, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord.
O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
§ 37.08 RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   On or before March 1 of each year the city’s Chief Financial Officer
shall prepare and deliver to the City Attorney a list of all delinquent ad
valorem taxes (“delinquent tax”) assessed upon real or personal property
(“delinquent tax list”). The delinquent tax list shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of the property as shown on the tax bill. In the case
of ad valorem taxes upon real estate, the description shall include at a
minimum the street address of the property.
      (2)   A statement of the amount of each tax or assessment bill
(“delinquent tax”) upon such item of property, including all tax or assessment
bills thereon which are delinquent, the year for which the tax or assessment
was made; and the rate at which interest and penalties shall be computed.
      (3)   The full name of the delinquent taxpayer appearing on the records
of the County Property Valuation Administrator (“PVA”) or on the records of the
city and whose names the tax bills on such property or real estate were listed
or charged for the year(s) the delinquent taxes were assessed.
      (4)   A photocopy of each delinquent tax bill or assessment.
   (B)   On or before April 1 of each year, the City Attorney shall serve
written notice to each delinquent taxpayer by United States Mail, postage pre-
paid. Such written notification shall include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   A demand for payment of the delinquent tax, with interest, penalty,
and costs on or before a specified date.
      (2)   Notice to the delinquent taxpayer that unless satisfactory
arrangements for payment of the delinquent tax are made by the delinquent
taxpayer and the city, suit may be filed in the appropriate court of competent
jurisdiction for the collection of such indebtedness.
      (3)   The delinquent taxpayer may be liable for attorney’s fees and all
costs incurred by the city in the collection of such delinquent tax.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall be paid $25 for each letter written pursuant
to division (B) of this section which shall be paid to the City Attorney by the
city. Such fee shall be added to the delinquent tax bill of each delinquent
taxpayer. Except as provided under divisions (F) and/or (G) of this section,
the City Attorney shall receive no further fee with respect to any delinquent
tax bill unless and until the City Attorney is directed by the city to initiate
litigation or to take further legal action in the collection of the delinquent
tax. Any additional attorney’s fees incurred by the city shall be added to the
delinquent tax bill of the delinquent taxpayer.
   (D)   On or before August 1 of each year, the Chief Financial Officer shall
update the list provided for in division (A) of this section by deleting all
delinquent taxpayer names which have been paid in full. Delinquent taxpayers
who have made arrangements with the city for partial payments shall likewise be
noted on the delinquent tax list as provided for in division (A).
   (E)   Upon receipt of the updated delinquent tax list as provided for under
division (D) of this section, the City Attorney with the advice and in
consultation with the Mayor and Chief Financial Officer, shall make a
determination as to whether suit or other legal action should be taken against
the delinquent taxpayer pursuant to the provisions of KRS 91A.070, and/or to
enforce any other statutory remedies available to the city. In determining
which action should be taken, the City Attorney, Mayor and Chief Financial
Officer shall consider the amount of delinquent tax due; the number of years
delinquent taxes have been unpaid; the value of the property for which
delinquent taxes have been assessed; the likelihood of collection, and any and
all other criteria which the City Attorney, Mayor and Chief Financial Officer
deem appropriate. After suite or other legal action has been initiated, the
City Attorney shall diligently pursue such action and enforcement through
judgement and collection.
   (F)    The City Attorney shall be paid a fee for service rendered at an
hourly rate provided for in the City Attorney’s then current Legal Services
Agreement in effect at the time the suit was initiated. In addition to
attorney’s fees, the City Attorney shall submit all other related costs
incurred in the prosecution of that collection action which shall include, but
not be limited to, title examination costs; court filing fees; Master
Commissioner fees; and any and all other fees and costs reasonably incurred in
the prosecution of such suite and/or other legal action. The city shall be
responsible for advancing all such costs in the prosecution of such suit and/or
legal action. All reasonably incurred costs and expenses incurred by the City
Attorney and/or the city in the collection of any delinquent tax shall be
assessed to the delinquent taxpayer for collection as permitted pursuant to KRS
91A.070.
   (G)   In the event suit is brought by any other individual, corporation, or
other entity in which the city is named as a party, the City Attorney in the
defense of such action, including but not limited to, those outlined in
division (F) of this section, shall be assessed against the delinquent taxpayer
as permitted under KRS 91A.070.
(Ord. O-3-83, passed 1-25-83; Am. Ord. O-31-2023, passed 12-19-23)
§ 37.09 FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax Act, KRS 136.575,
(the “Act”), by Ordinance O-18-96, the city levied a franchise tax on financial
institutions measured by the deposits in financial institutions located within
the boundaries of the city. This franchise tax for the calendar year shall be
at the rate of 0.025% of the deposits and shall be due January 31, 2023. A 2%
discount shall be allowed for any franchise tax for the calendar year 2021
which is paid on or before December 31, 2022. Pursuant to KRS 136.575(4) the
city shall issue bills for the 2022 franchise tax to financial institutions on
or before December 1, 2022.
   (B)   The definitions of the terms used in this section shall correspond to
the definitions used for those terms in the Act.
   (C)   The discount provisions of §
37.05 and the penalty provisions of §
37.06 shall not apply to the financial institutions franchise tax described in
this section.
   (D)   Any such franchise tax for the calendar year 2022 which is unpaid
after the 31st day of January 2023, shall bear a penalty of 12%, plus interest
on the amount of unpaid taxes at the rate of 12% per annum from January 31,
2023, until paid.
   (E)   In all subsequent years, the city shall issue bills to the financial
institutions by December 1 and require payment, with a 2% discount by December
31, or without discount by January 31 of the next year. Franchise taxes unpaid
after January 31 of the next year shall bear penalty of 12% plus interest on
the amount of unpaid taxes at the rate of 12% per annum from such January 31
until paid.
(Ord. O-21-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. O-16-12, passed 9-18-12; Am. Ord. O-11-
13, passed 9-17-13; Am. Ord. 0-20-14, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord. O-15-15, passed
9-15-15; Am. Ord. O-14-17, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. O-12-20, passed 9-15-20;
Am. Ord. O-18-22, passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. O-17-2024, passed 9-17-24)
CHAPTER 38: INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BONDS - ISSUANCE FEE POLICY
Section
   
38.01   Bond issuance fee for certain real estate exempt from real estate
taxation
   
38.02   Issuance fee for all projects financed through issuance of revenue
bonds
§ 38.01 BOND ISSUANCE FEE FOR CERTAIN REAL ESTATE EXEMPT FROM REAL ESTATE
TAXATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City Council that in all instances where the
city is requested to provide financing through an industrial building revenue
bond issue for the expansion, equipping, or refinancing of a facility with
respect to which there is an outstanding issue of city industrial building
revenue bonds pursuant to which legal title to the facility is in the city and
thereby exempt from real estate taxation, and in which the lessee of that
facility has the option to renew the lease and thereby continue the real estate
tax-exempt status of the facility for at least ten years beyond the final
maturity of the outstanding industrial revenue bond issue, then the city shall
charge an issuance fee as set out below for such new issue of bonds.
   (B)   The issuance fee shall be in the amount of $5,000 or .15% of the new
bond issue, whichever is greater.
(Ord. O-6-82, passed 2-23-82)
§ 38.02 ISSUANCE FEE FOR ALL PROJECTS FINANCED THROUGH ISSUANCE OF REVENUE
BONDS.
   (A)   There is hereby established an issuance fee for all projects which the
city finances through the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of KRS
103.200 through 103.285. This fee shall be in the amount of .2% of the total
principal amount of the bonds or $1,000, whichever is greater. These fees shall
be payable to the city at the time of issuance of the bonds and may be paid
from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds. All such fees collected shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city and used for all purposes for which
funds deposited therein may be used.
   (B)   The fee herein provided for shall not be charged for any bond issue
for which the issuance fee provided for in §
38.01 is paid.
(Ord. O-7-84, passed 3-27-84)
CHAPTER 39: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND PROJECTS
Section
Public Improvements - Installment Payment Plan
   
39.01   Authority to provide installment plan financing
   
39.02   City Engineer to prepare certificate of apportionment
   
39.03   City Clerk to send notice requiring payment of assessment
   
39.04   When payment due; delinquent payments
   
39.05   Election of installment payment plan by property owner
   
39.06   Payment procedure under installment payment plan
   
39.07   Disposition of collected payments
   
39.08   Sale of bonds in anticipation of collected payments
   
39.09   Restrictions on issued bonds
Public Projects
   
39.20   Public Properties Corporation established
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS - INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN
§ 39.01 AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE INSTALLMENT PLAN FINANCING.
   When the city undertakes a public improvement project to be financed by
assessments of benefited property owners pursuant to KRS 91A.200 to 91A.290,
the city may provide for the installment payment of such assessments and for
long-term financing of that portion of the cost of the improvement project
assessed against property owners who elect installment payment by the issuance
and sale of revenue bonds pursuant to KRS 91A.220(3), as hereinafter set out in
this chapter.
   (B)   If, in the comprehensive report required by KRS 91A.240 and the
Ordinance adopted pursuant to KRS 91A.260, the city elects to make the
installment payment plan with long term bond financing described in division
(A) above available, the city may proceed to provide such plan and financing in
the manner set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.02 CITY ENGINEER TO PREPARE CERTIFICATE OF APPORTIONMENT.
   Where the city has proceeded with an improvement or part thereof pursuant to
KRS 91A.280(1), the City Engineer shall, at such time thereafter as the amount
of the assessment of each benefited property owner may be accurately
determined, prepare a certificate of apportionment showing the total cost of
the portion of the improvement to be assessed; the number of assessable units
of benefited property according to the basis of assessment to be utilized; the
cost per assessment unit; the names of the owners of the benefited property;
the number of assessable units owned by each person; and the proportionate part
of the cost of the improvement to be assessed against the benefited property of
each owner. The certificate shall be delivered to the City Clerk.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.03 CITY CLERK TO SEND NOTICE REQUIRING PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENT.
   Upon receipt of the certificate of apportionment, the City Clerk shall send
by certified mail to each person listed in the certificate as owning an
assessment, a notice requiring payment of the assessment pursuant to KRS
91A.280(1). The notice shall inform each person of the amount of the
assessment, the due date of the assessment, the availability of the installment
payment plan, the last date upon which the person may elect installment
payments, and the method of such election provided for herein.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.04 WHEN PAYMENT DUE; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   The assessment shall be due and payable at the office of the City Clerk 30
days after the day of mailing of the notice, subject to deferment when the
installment payment plan is elected. Any assessment that is not paid when due
shall bear interest at the same rate that is applicable to general city taxes,
which interest shall commence to run as of the due date of the assessment and
shall continue to run and be chargeable until paid.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.05 ELECTION OF INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Any property owner who desires to elect the installment payment plan
shall, before the due date of the assessment, enter into an agreement in
writing with the city that in consideration of this privilege he will make no
objection to any illegality or irregularity in the assessment against his
property, and that he will pay the assessment in the manner provided herein.
Any property owner entering into such an agreement shall be precluded thereby,
and shall waive any defense against the payment of the assessment. The
agreement shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk, who shall preserve it
as part of the records of her office.
   (B)   If any property subject to an assessment is owned by an infant, a
person of unsound mind, or a life tenant, or is property which has descended by
inheritance or will, the agreement provided for in this action may be executed
by the statutory guardian of the infant, the committee or curator of the person
of unsound mind, the life tenant, the heirs at law, the devisees, or the
personal representative of the deceased owner of the property.
   (C)   In all cases where agreements have not been filed within the time
specified herein, the entire assessment shall be payable in cash, and shall be
subject to interest as provided herein.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.06 PAYMENT PROCEDURE UNDER INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN.
   In cases where the installment payment plan has been elected, the
installments and interest shall be payable as follows:
   (A)   If the next due date for regular city taxes will occur less than six
months from the original due date for the assessment, the property owner, at
the time he executes the installment option agreement, shall pay to the City
Clerk an amount equal to interest on the total amount of the assessment against
him at the same rate of interest applicable to regular city taxes, computed
from the original due date for the assessment to a date six months beyond the
due date for regular city taxes.
   (B)   If the next due date for regular city taxes will occur more than six
months from the original due date for the assessment, the property owner, at
the time he executes the installment option agreement, shall pay to the City
Clerk the first installment of one-tenth of his total assessment together with
an amount equal to interest on the unpaid installments of the assessment, at
the same rate of interest applicable to regular city taxes, computed from the
original due date for the assessment to a date six months prior to the next due
date for regular city taxes.
   (C)   In the situation contemplated by division (A) of this section, an
installment equal to one-tenth of his total assessment shall be payable by the
property owner at the second succeeding due date for regular city taxes
following the original due date for the assessment, and annually thereafter an
additional one-tenth shall be due until the assessment is paid.
   (D)   In the situation contemplated by division (B) of this section, the
second installment of one-tenth of his total assessment shall be payable by the
property owner at the due date for regular city taxes next following the
original due date for the assessment, and annually thereafter an additional
one-tenth shall be due until the tax is paid.
   (E)   At the time an installment is due under either division (C) or (D) of
this section, there shall also be due interest for one year on the installments
that will thereafter remain unpaid, plus interest for six months on the
installment then being paid. However, when the last installment is paid, the
only interest due shall be six months' interest on the installment then being
paid. Such installments of interest shall be at the rate which the bonds issued
and sold pursuant to §
39.08 hereof shall bear, except that the first such installment of interest
shall be adjusted by the difference between the interest rate applicable to
regular city taxes and the interest rate of the bonds in such a manner that the
property owner will pay the same amount of interest which would have been paid
by him if the interest payments made by him under divisions (A) or (B) of this
section had been made at the interest rate of the bonds.
   (F)   The City Clerk may cause to be placed upon the regular city tax bills
each installment due under division (C) or (D) of this section, with the
interest payments due under division (E) of this section added thereto so as to
make one sum, or the City Clerk may send a separate bill for such sum at the
same time regular city tax bills are sent. If such sum is not paid by the next
due date for regular city taxes, the sum shall then become subject to interest
and penalty the same as the regular city taxes and shall be collectible and be
collected in the same manner and by the same methods and remedies as the
regular city taxes. However, any early payment discount applicable to regular
city taxes shall not apply to such sum.
   (G)   Any property owner may at any due date for an installment when five or
less installments of his assessment remain to be paid (counting the installment
then due) pay the entire amount of the unpaid assessment together with six
months' interest on that amount, which shall constitute full payment of the
assessment.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.07 DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall promptly apply all money paid on assessment
installments, including interest and penalties, to the payment of bonds and
coupons issued in anticipation of the collections of the assessments. If the
fund accumulated from the collection of installments, interest, and penalties
for any particular improvement is more than sufficient to pay the principal and
interest of the bonds issued in anticipation of the collections, such excess
shall be deposited into the General Fund of the city. If there is any deficit,
the city may provide for its payment out of the general funds of the city.
   (B)   The installments, interest, and penalties collected for any one
improvement project shall be recorded in a separate account. Collections for
the account of any and all such improvement projects may be deposited and kept
in a single depository or fund, but money from such depository or fund may be
disbursed only for interest or in redemption of bonds issued for a particular
improvement and only when the account balance of such improvement project
evidences the availability of money for such disbursement. However, money
collected in excess of interest and redemption requirements for any improvement
project may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.08 SALE OF BONDS IN ANTICIPATION OF COLLECTED PAYMENTS.
   (A)   To provide a fund for the immediate payment of the cost of any public
improvement made on the installment payment plan, the City Council may by
ordinance provide for and sell bonds in anticipation of the collection of such
installments of the assessments against property owners who elected the
installment payment plan, pledging the assessments and the liens on the
property for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, and apply
the proceeds exclusively to the payment of the cost of the particular
improvement in anticipation of the collection of the assessments for which the
bonds are issued. The bonds shall be dated 30 days after the original due date
for the assessment and shall be made payable to bearer.
   (B)   The bonds for each separate assessment shall be numbered consecutively
throughout. Where the assessment will be payable in the manner provided in §
39.06(A) and (C), the bonds shall be divided into ten series. Where the
assessment will be payable in the manner provided in §
39.06(B) and (D), the bonds shall be divided into nine series. The series in
each case shall be as nearly equal as practicable.
   (C)   The bonds shall be of the denomination of $100 or its multiple. Any
odd amount over $100 or its multiple may be included in the last bond to
mature. No bond shall be issued for less than $100. The bonds shall have the
name of the assessment project for which they are issued printed, engraved, or
written thereon, and shall state the character of the improvement.
   (D)   The bonds, with interest, shall be payable at the depository selected
by the purchaser of the bonds, or if no such selection is made, at the
depository designated by the city. Where the bonds are divided into ten series,
the first series shall be payable 30 days after the first installment of the
assessment, and the remaining series shall be payable one each year thereafter
for nine years. Where the bonds are divided into nine series, the first series
shall be payable 30 days after the second installment of the assessment becomes
due, and the remaining series shall be payable one each year for eight years.
The bonds in every case shall bear interest at the rate at which the bonds are
sold by the city pursuant to competitive bidding.
   (E)   The city may, prior to sale, fix a maximum interest rate for the
bonds. If the first series of bonds is payable more than one year after the
date which the bonds bear, an initial interest payment shall be payable on a
date six months prior to the due date of the first series, covering the
interest accrued on all series to that date. If the first series of bonds is
payable less than one year after the date which the bonds bear, the initial
interest payment covering accrued interest on all series shall be payable on
the due date of the first series. After the initial interest payment, interest
on all unpaid bonds shall be payable semiannually at the end of each six
months. All bonds shall have suitable coupons attached thereto evidencing the
initial and semiannual interest.
   (F)   The bonds and coupons shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned
by the City Clerk but the coupons may bear facsimile signatures. The City Clerk
shall attest the signatures to the bonds under the city seal. It shall not be
necessary in the bonds to recite the steps taken in ordering the improvement or
in assessing the assessment, but it shall be sufficient to make a general
reference to those proceedings and to this chapter. The bonds shall be
negotiable and shall be free from all defenses by any property owner.
   (G)   In lieu of the bearer form of coupon bonds described above, the
purchaser of the bonds may elect to have them issued as fully registered bonds
without coupons or as a single fully registered bond without coupons. In the
event of such election, the times and manner of payment of principal and
interest and the redemption provisions of the fully registered bond or bonds
shall correspond to those provided herein for the coupon bonds.
   (H)   The bonds shall be exempt from all taxation. They shall not be sold
for less than par and accrued interest.
   (I)   Any premium realized from the sale of the bonds shall go into the fund
for the payment of the bonds and interest.
   (J)   Several public improvements of the same class may be combined for the
purpose of issuing bonds.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
§ 39.09 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUED BONDS.
   (A)   Bonds issued under this chapter and the interest thereon, shall be
payable exclusively out of the funds actually collected by the city on account
of the assessment in anticipation of which the bonds are issued. The city shall
in no event be liable on any such bonds except to the extent of funds so
actually collected.
   (B)   Bonds of the last four series of any issue shall be subject to payment
and redemption without premium at any interest-paying date that occurs within
five years of the due date of the bonds. The City Clerk shall give the owner of
the bond proposed to be redeemed at least 20 days' notice by registered letter.
The owner of any bond subject to redemption shall notify the City Clerk of his
post office address and any changes therein and the City Clerk shall keep a
record of the address opposite the number of the bond on his records. The
notice shall be directed to the recorded address, and such owner at his last
known address. The bond specified shall bear no interest after the date fixed
for its redemption, and this provision shall be shown in substance on the
bonds. Mailing the registered letter 20 days before the time fixed for
redemption shall be deemed a compliance with this division.
   (C)   After the issue of the bonds, no suit shall lie to enjoin or resist
the collection of any assessment in anticipation of which the bonds are issued,
and the validity of the same shall not be questioned, but all property owners
shall be conclusively estopped from assailing the effectiveness or validity
thereof.
   (D)   The bonds shall convey to the owners thereof all right, title, and
interest in the assessment and liens on the benefited property, which liens,
until released after payment, shall stand as security for the bonds and coupons
until they are paid. If any bond or coupon is not paid on presentation, the
owner thereof may maintain an appropriate action to compel the city to enforce
collection of the assessment and in such an action it shall not be necessary to
make the other bondholders parties. The proceeds of the action shall be paid
into the city treasury for the redemption of matured bonds and coupons as if
paid without suit.
(Ord. O-18-83, passed 5-24-83)
PUBLIC PROJECTS
§ 39.20 PUBLIC PROPERTIES CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A nonprofit, nonstock corporation is hereby established pursuant to
the provisions of KRS 273.161 through 273.390 to be known as the "City of
Florence, Kentucky, Public Properties Corporation" (the "Corporation") to have
and exercise the purposes and powers as may exist from time to time under its
Articles of Incorporation.
   (B)   The Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation are approved and
authorized substantially in the form attached to Ord. O-30-86 as Exhibit A
(said Exhibit A to be hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein), which Articles of Incorporation may be amended subject to approval
pursuant to an order or resolution of this City Council.
   (C)   The Directors of the Corporation shall be as set forth in Articles of
Incorporation.
(Ord. O-30-86, passed 10-28-86)
CHAPTER 40: INTERLOCAL COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
40.01   Pooled lease program
   
40.02   Self-insurance, insurance, and investment of public funds
   
40.03   Establishment of Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association
§ 40.01 POOLED LEASE PROGRAM.
   Ordinance 0-20-86 is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
code as if set out in full herein. Ordinance 0-20-86 is enabling legislation to
permit the city to participate in the Kentucky Municipal League's cooperative
capital improvements financing program. The full text of Ordinance 0-20-86 is
available for examination in the office of the City Clerk at the municipal
building.
(Ord. O-20-86, passed 7-24-86)
§ 40.02 SELF-INSURANCE, INSURANCE, AND INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (A)   The city hereby approves the joint and cooperative program for self-
insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds among the City of
Florence and the other cities, urban-county governments and public agencies
within the Commonwealth of Kentucky which become signatories to the Interlocal
Agreement, including the financing of said program through the issuance of
revenue bonds under the terms and conditions of the Interlocal Agreement.
   (B)   The city hereby approves and ratifies the Articles of Association and
By-Laws for the Association, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A to
the Interlocal Agreement, and which are hereby incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth herein.
   (C)   It is understood by the city that by executing the Interlocal
Agreement and thereby becoming a member of the Association, the city shall
incur no liability for the payment of any funds and that it shall be necessary
for the city to take further action prior to becoming a "participating member"
in any of the self-insurance, insurance or investment trusts which may be
created by the Association.
   (D)   The effectiveness of this section is expressly conditioned upon the
final approval of the Interlocal Agreement, substantially in the form attached
to Ord. O-17-87 (and which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set
forth herein), by the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, as
required by KRS 65.260(2), and by any other officer or agency of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, as may be required by KRS 65.300.
(Ord. O-17-87, passed 6-2-87)
§ 40.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF KENTUCKY MUNICIPAL RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   The city approves the joint and cooperative program for self-
insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds as set forth in the
interlocal agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
Association (KMRMA).
   (B)   The Mayor and the City Clerk are authorized and directed to execute
the Interlocal Agreement to establish the KMRMA on behalf of the city.
   (C)   The city approves and ratifies the Articles of Association and Bylaws
of the KMRMA, as amended.
   (D)   It is understood by the city that by executing the interlocal
agreement to establish the KMRMA the city shall incur no liability for the
payment of any funds, and that it shall be necessary for the city to take
further action before becoming a participating member in any of the self-
insurance, insurance or investment programs which may be created and operated
by KMRMA.
   (E)   It is understood that the KMRMA will begin operating a worker's
compensation self-insurance group effective July 1, 1993, which will enable the
city to obtain the necessary worker's compensation insurance coverage.
(Ord. O-13-93, passed 5-19-93)
CHAPTER 41: DISASTER AND EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
Section
   
41.01   Authority to declare a state of emergency
§ 41.01 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE A STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   If the Mayor is absent from the city or unable to act, in the event of
the occurrence or threatened or impending occurrence of any of the situations
or events contemplated by KRS 39A.010, 39A.020 or 39A.030, the following
persons are hereby designated with authority to declare in writing that a state
of emergency exists and thereafter to exercise, for such period as the state of
emergency exists or continues, the emergency powers set for in KRS 39A.100(3):
the City Coordinator; or, in his or her absence or inability to act, the Chief
of Police; or in his absence or inability to act, the Chief of Fire/EMS
Department.
   (B)   The authority hereby delegated to such designees shall be subject to
any orders of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. O-17-03, passed 8-5-03)
CHAPTER 42: INVESTMENT POLICIES
Section
   
42.01   General investment policy
   
42.02   Scope
   
42.03   Investment objectives
   
42.04   Investment authority
   
42.05   Standards of care
   
42.06   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
42.07   Safekeeping and custody
   
42.08   Suitable and authorized investments
   
42.09   Investment parameters
   
42.10   Performance standards/evaluation
   
42.11   Reporting/disclosure
   
42.12   Policy considerations
§ 42.01 GENERAL INVESTMENT POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Florence, Kentucky (“city”) to invest public
funds in a manner which will provide the maximum security and highest
investment of principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city
in accordance with KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy applies
to all financial assets held directly by the city. These financial assets shall
be accounted for in the city’s annual financial report and included in the
city’s investment fund accounts.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual
financial report and include all moneys in the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund.
      (2)   Special Revenue Fund.
      (3)   Capital Projects Fund.
      (4)   Enterprise Fund.
      (5)   Agency Fund.
      (6)   Any new fund created by the city.
   (B)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city’s primary investment objectives.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.03 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following:
   (A)   Statutory compliance. At all times, the city’s investment portfolio
shall maintain strict compliance with all statutory requirements, including but
not limited to KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480.
   (B)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the city's
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The goal is to
mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (C)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (D)   Return on investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.04 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Management’s responsibility for the city’s investment program is the
joint responsibility of the designated officials which shall be the Mayor and
the Finance Director. Both shall share the authority, subject to the approval
of the City Council, to establish additional specific written procedures for
the operation of the investment program that are consistent with this
investment policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment transactions.
   (B)   No person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided
under the terms of this policy and the procedures established by the designated
officials. These designated officials shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees.
   (C)   The designated officials shall maintain all records related to the
entity’s investment program.
   (D)   The designated officials may, in their absolute discretion, hire
professional advisors to assist them in carrying out their responsibilities
outlined herein.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.05 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the designated officials in the performance
of their duties as manager of the city’s funds shall be evaluated using the
“prudent person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care
under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as, the probable income to be derived. The designated
officials, acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment
policy, and exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security’s performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the City
Council and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. City officials and employees
involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that
could conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment
program, or that could impair their ability to make impartial investment
decisions. Employees and investment officials shall disclose any material
interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business.
Disclosure shall be made to the City Council. They shall further disclose any
personal financial/investment positions that could be related to the
performance of the investment portfolio. City officials and employees shall
refrain from undertaking any personal investment transactions with the same
individual with whom business is conducted on behalf of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The City Council will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The City Council will receive monthly
reports, designate designated officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated officials.
         (a)   Authority to manage the investment program is granted to the
Mayor and the Finance Director, hereinafter referred to as designated officials
as designated by this chapter. Responsibility for the operation of the
investment program is hereby delegated to the designated officials who shall
act in accordance with established written procedures and internal controls for
the operation of the investment program consistent with this investment policy.
         (b)   City officials and/or employees will prepare monthly investment
reports and other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants
in the investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the
public trust. No city official and/or employee may engage in an investment
transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and supporting
procedures.
      (3)   Investment adviser. The designated officials and/or city shall
engage the services of one or more external investment managers or other
professionals to assist in the management of the entity’s investment portfolio
in a manner consistent with the city’s objectives. Such external managers may
be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment securities in accordance
with this investment policy. Such managers must be registered under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.06 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by conducting a process
of due diligence. These may include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that
qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net
capital rule).
   (A)   The designated officials may determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the city shall be at the sole discretion of the
city. The designated officials may, in their absolute discretion, select
financial institutions for investment services by issuing Requests for
Proposals (“RFP”). The designated officials shall be responsible for preparing
an RFP as the designated officials may deem appropriate. Selection of a
financial institution being selected through the RFP process shall be subject
to approval by the City Council.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties);
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity’s investment policy; and
      (5)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the
designated officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the designated officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
state law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The designated officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the designated
officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   When the city and/or designated officials hire an investment
adviser to provide investment management services, the adviser must provide
documentation of competitive pricing execution on each transaction. The
investment adviser will retain documentation and provide upon request. The
designated officials may, in their absolute discretion, select an investment
adviser for investment services by issuing Requests for Proposals (“RFP”). The
designated officials shall be responsible for preparing an RFP as the
designated officials may deem appropriate. Selection of an investment adviser
being selected through the RFP process shall be subject to approval by the City
Council.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.07 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the city. All securities will
be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the city. The safekeeping
institution shall annually provide a copy of its most recent report on internal
controls - Service Organization Control Reports (formerly 70, or SAS 70)
prepared in accordance with the Statement on Standards for Attestation
Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. Designated officials shall establish a system of
internal controls, which shall be documented in writing. Internal controls
shall be reviewed by the city’s Investment Advisor and the city’s independent
auditor when conducting the city’s annual audit as required by law. The
controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds arising from
fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated
changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees and officers of
the city.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.08 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. The city may invest and
reinvest money subject to its control and jurisdiction in:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements, if
delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is taken either
directly or through an authorized custodian. These investments may be
accomplished through repurchase agreements reached with sources including but
not limited to national or state banks chartered in Kentucky;
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to: 1. United States
Treasury; 2. Export-Import Bank of the United States; 3. Farmers Home
Administration; 4. Government National Mortgage Corporation; and 5. Merchant
Marine bonds;
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to: 1. Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; 2.
Federal Farm Credit Banks; 3. Bank for Cooperatives; 4. Federal Intermediate
Credit Banks; 5. Federal Land Banks; 6. Federal Home Loan Banks; 7. Federal
National Mortgage Association; and 8. Tennessee Valley Authority;
      (4)   Certificates of deposit or other interest-bearing accounts issued
through a bank or savings and loan institution having a physical presence in
Kentucky which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or
similar entity or which are collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds, permitted by KRS 41.240(4);
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky rated in
one of the three highest categories by a competent rating agency;
      (6)   Bankers’ acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a competent rating agency;
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a competent
rating agency;
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities;
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality of agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a competent rating agency;
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds, each of which
shall have the following characteristics: 1. The mutual fund shall be an open-
end diversified investment company registered under the Federal Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended; 2. The management company of the investment
company shall have been in operation for at least five years; and 3. All of the
securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible investments pursuant to this
section;
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds being invested are
managed by a professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory
agency. The individual equity securities shall be included within the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index, and a single sector shall not exceed 25% of the equity
allocation; and
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds that are managed by a
professional investment manager that: 1. Are issued, assumed, or guaranteed by
a solvent institution created and existing under the laws of the United States;
2. Have a standard maturity of no more than ten years; and 3. Are rated in the
three highest rating categories by at least two competent credit rating
agencies.
   (B)   Public project/economic development. The designated officials and/or
city may provide interest bearing loans for public and private entities where
the funds are to be used for the advancement of public purposes and economic
development within the city. Such investments shall be fully collateralized by
a first mortgage on real estate. The funding shall not exceed 75% of the value
of the mortgaged collateral. Funding will only be available to those public
and/or private entities who meet minimum financial requirements as may be
determined by the designated officials and/or city in their absolute
discretion. The designated officials and/or the city may in their absolute
discretion establish any and all other regulations relating to a recipient’s
qualifications, amounts of loans granted, payment terms, collateralization
requirements, and the like.
   (C)   Collateralization. Where allowed or required by state law full
collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including
checking accounts and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes)
and non-negotiable certificates of deposit. Acceptable collateral for bank
deposits and repurchase agreements shall include only:
      (1)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage-backed securities; or
      (2)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at least
AA by two nationally-recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.09 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting the following:
   (A)   The amount of money invested at any time by the city in any one of the
categories of investments authorized by subsection (A)(5), (6), (7), (11), and
(12) of §
42.08 shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of money invested by the city;
   (B)   The amount of money invested at any one time by the city in the
categories of investments authorized in §
42.08(A)(10), (11), and (12) shall not, aggregately, exceed 40% of the total
money invested unless the investment is in a mutual fund consisting solely of
the investments authorized under §
42.08(A)(1), (2), (3), (8), or (10) of this section, or any combination
thereof;
   (C)   The city shall purchase any investment authorized by §
42.08(A) on a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging
technique; and
   (D)   At the time the investment is made, no more than 5% of the total
amount of money invested by the city shall be invested in any one issuer
unless:
      (1)   The issuer is the United States government or an agency or
instrumentality of the United States government, or an entity which has its
obligations guaranteed by either the United States government or an entity,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States government;
      (2)   The money is invested in a certificate of deposit or other
interest-bearing accounts as authorized by §
42.08(A)(4) and (5);
      (3)   The money is invested in bonds or certificates of indebtedness of
this state
and its agencies and instrumentalities as authorized in §
42.08(A)(8); or
      (4)   The money is invested in securities issued by a state or local
government, or any instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States as
authorized in §
42.08(A)(9).
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.10 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/EVALUATION.
   The city’s investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and comply with state law.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.11 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   The designated officials, upon request from City Council, shall file an
investment report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic
developments and anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize
the investment strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the
portfolio in terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics
and other features. The report shall explain the quarter’s total investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall
include an appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter.
The report shall be in compliance with state law and shall be distributed as
required by law. Each quarterly report shall indicate any areas of policy
concern and suggested or planned revision of investment strategies. Copies
shall be transmitted to the independent auditor. Within 40 days of the end of
the fiscal year, the designated officials shall present a comprehensive annual
report for the City Council on the investment program and investment activity.
The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly comparisons of
return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be made in the
investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included within the
annual comprehensive annual financial report.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
§ 42.12 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy. Provided, however, the designated officials shall have
full authority to terminate any noncompliant investment currently held by the
city as they may deem appropriate in their discretion.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the designated officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls. The designated officials annual report as provided for in §
42.11 herein shall include any recommended changes which the designated
officials may deem appropriate.
(Ord. O-1-2024, passed 2-6-24)
CHAPTER 43: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
43.01   Title
   
43.02   Findings
   
43.03   Purpose and authority
   
43.04   Definitions
   
43.05   Interlocal Corporation Agreement
Standards of Conduct
   
43.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
43.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
43.17   Receipt of gifts
   
43.18   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
43.19   Misuse of confidential information
   
43.20   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
43.35   Who must file
   
43.36   When to file statements; amended statements
   
43.37   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
43.38   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
43.39   Contents of financial interests statement
   
43.40   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
43.50   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
43.60   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
43.61   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
43.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 43.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Florence Code
of Ethics."
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
§ 43.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The city government has a duty to provide its citizens with standards
by which they may determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the standards with
which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply while conducting their
public duties.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
§ 43.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable; and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003(3), as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
§ 43.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS." The Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee as
created by the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and vested by this
chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city Code
of Ethics.
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "CANDIDATE." Any person who has filed the necessary documents with the Boone
County Clerk's Office and is eligible to be on the ballot for election to any
city elective office.
   "CITY." The City of Florence, Kentucky.
   "CITY AGENCY." Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term "EMPLOYEE"
shall not include any volunteer member of the Police Department, the Fire and
Emergency Medical Services Department, nor any contractor or subcontractor or
any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   "GIFT." The donation of something of value without consideration in return,
but this term shall not include payment or reimbursement of travel expenses,
including meals and lodging, in connection with participation by the officer or
employee in the activities of any public or private organization which is
involved, in whole or in part, with municipal government affairs.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee as a dependent for tax purposes.
   "OFFICER." Any person, except a volunteer member of the Police Department or
the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department, whether full-time or part-
time, and whether paid or unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A Councilmember.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Coordinator.
      (5)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. O-13-96, passed 8-27-96; Am. Ord. O-
07-03, passed 4-1-03)
§ 43.05 INTERLOCAL CORPORATION AGREEMENT.
   Incorporated herein by reference is an Interlocal Corporation Agreement
authorized by KRS § 65.210, et seq. which the Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to sign on behalf of the city. The provisions of this section shall be
enforced by the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Enforcement Committee according to the provisions
thereof.
(Ord. O-07-03, passed 4-1-03)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 43.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer, employee, appointee and volunteer of the city and every city
agency shall comply with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to a greater extent than any gain could
reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her other public duties shall disclose the precise nature and
value of the interest, in writing, to the City Council or city agency served by
the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official
record of the proceedings of the Council or agency. The officer or employee
shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that is the
subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or
city agency office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city
agency. However, if any contract entered into by the city or city agency
officer or employee before he or she was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she assumes the appointed office, or is
hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) of this section
shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall accept
no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (3)
are satisfied:
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the City Council or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the City Council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
§ 43.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $150 in any form, under circumstances
in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to
influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer or employee
in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy;
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.19 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act (KRS 61.872 to 61.884), at the time
of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.20 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer of the city or a city agency shall accept any compensation,
honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $150 in consideration
of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech or article is
both related to the officer's activities outside of municipal service and is
unrelated to the officer's service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer of the city or any
city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf of the city
actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer in
connection with an appearance, speech or article, provided that the officer can
show by clear and convincing evidence that the expenses were incurred or
received on behalf of the city or city agency and primarily for the benefit of
the City or city agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer or any
other person.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 43.35 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers, employees and candidates of the city and
city agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the
Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Members of the city Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment.
   (C)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter.
   (D)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving any single expenditure of more than $1,000.
   (E)   Candidates for city elective offices.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. O-13-96, passed 8-27-96)
§ 43.36 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section,
except statements required to be filed by candidates, shall be filed with the
Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated as the custodian of
its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 5:00 p.m. on February 1,
1995. An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment. All
subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than 5:00
p.m. on April 30 each year.
   (B)   Candidates shall file a statement of financial interests no later than
5:00 p.m., on the thirtieth day after the deadline for filing in the Boone
County Clerk's Office of the documents necessary to qualify them to run for the
city elective office for which they are a candidate.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (D)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the candidate,
officer or employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. O-13-96, passed 8-27-96; Am. Ord. O-
07-03, passed 4-1-03)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.37 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than March 1 of each year.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the "official custodian" of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the "custodian," as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, except that upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to
be an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause
to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
§ 43.39 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address and home phone number of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding $10,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the
income (e.g. salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution,
etc.).
      (5)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $150 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer during the preceding
calendar year.
      (6)   The name and address of any business in which the filer, or any
member of the filer’s immediate family, has an ownership interest which either
has a fair market value or more than $10,000 or more than 5% of the total
ownership interest therein; and which is located within the city, or has
conducted any business in the city during the preceding calendar year, or is
anticipated by the filer to conduct business int eh city during the calendar
year of the filing of the financial interest statement.
      (7)   The location of any real estate in the city, other than the primary
residence fo the filer, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family has, or during the preceding calendar year, has an ownership
interest therein, with a fair market value of more than $10,000.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. O-07-03, passed 4-1-03)
Penalty, see §
43.99
§ 43.40 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 43.50 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   employment;
      (2)   appointment;
      (3)   promotion;
      (4)   transfer; or
      (5)   advancement
of a family member to an office or position of employment with the city or a
city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
November 11, 1994.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
Penalty, see §
43.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 43.60 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing, signed
by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by the
Board.
§ 43.61 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city of the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act (KRS 61.870 to 61.884).
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. O-07-03, passed 4-1-03)
§ 43.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. O-35-94, passed 11-22-94)
CHAPTER 44: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
44.01   Program adoption
   
44.02   Program purpose
   
44.03   Definitions
   
44.04   Identification of red flags
   
44.05   Detecting red flags
   
44.06   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
44.07   Program updates
   
44.08   Program administration
Cross-references:
   Sanitary sewer rules and regulations, see
Ch. 50
   Garbage collection, see
Ch. 52
   Water rules and regulations, see
Ch. 53
§ 44.01 PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   The City Water & Sewer ("utility") developed this Identity Theft Prevention
Program ("program") pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission's Red Flags Rule
("Rule"), which implements Section 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act of 2003, 16 C.F.R. § 681.2. This program was developed with
the approval of the City Council. After consideration of the size and
complexity of the utility's operations and account systems, and the nature and
scope of the utility's activities, the City Council determined that this
program was appropriate for the City Water & Sewer, and therefore approved this
program on November 11, 2008.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.02 PROGRAM PURPOSE.
   Under the Red Flag Rule, every financial institution and creditor is
required to establish an "Identity Theft Prevention Program" tailored to its
size, complexity and the nature of its operation. Each program must contain
reasonable policies and procedures to:
   (A)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered accounts and
incorporate those red flags into the program;
   (B)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
   (C)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent
and mitigate identity theft; and
   (D)   Ensure the program is updated periodically, to reflect changes in
risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from identity
theft.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Red Flags Rule definitions used in this program:
   "CREDITORS." Includes finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage
brokers, utility companies, and telecommunications companies. Where non-profit
and government entities defer payment for goods or services, they, too, are to
be considered creditors.
   All the utility's accounts that are individual utility service accounts held
by customers of the utility whether residential, commercial or industrial are
covered by the Rule. "COVERED ACCOUNT" is:
      (1)   Any account the utility offers or maintains primarily for personal,
family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or transactions;
and
      (2)   Any other account the utility offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of
the utility from identity theft.
   "IDENTIFYING INFORMATION." Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, date of
birth, government issued driver's license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer's
Internet Protocol address, or routing code.
   "IDENTITY THEFT." Fraud committed using the identifying information of
another person.
   "MUNICIPAL UTILITY." A creditor subject to the Rule requirements.
   "RED FLAG." A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.04 IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   In order to identify relevant red flags, the utility considers the types of
accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open its
accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts, and its previous
experiences with identity theft. The utility identifies the following red
flags, in each of the listed categories:
   (A)   Suspicious documents red flags.
      (1)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged, altered
or inauthentic;
      (2)   Identification document or card on which a person's photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the document;
      (3)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person's signature on a check
appears forged); and
      (4)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
   (B)   Suspicious personal identifying information red flags.
      (1)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
sources of information (for instance, an address not matching an address on a
lease agreement);
      (2)   Identifying information presented that is the same as information
shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
      (3)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
      (4)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given by
another customer;
      (5)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
      (6)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information
on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law Social Security
numbers must not be required); and
      (7)   A person's identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
   (C)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account red flags.
      (1)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder's name;
      (2)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
      (3)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
      (4)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
      (5)   Notice to the utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent by
the utility;
      (6)   Notice to the utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
      (7)   Breach in the utility's computer system security; and
      (8)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
   (D)   Alerts from others red flag. Notice to the utility from a customer,
identity theft victim, law enforcement or other person that it has opened or is
maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.05 DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified in §
44.04 associated with the opening of a new account, Finance Department
personnel will take the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of
the person opening the account:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver's license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer's identity (for instance, review a driver's
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
      (4)   Independently contact the customer.
   (B)   Existing accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above for an existing account, Finance Department personnel will take the
following steps to monitor transactions with an account:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to change billing addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.06 PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   In the event Finance Department personnel detect any identified red flags,
such personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag:
   (A)   Prevent and mitigate.
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (7)   Notify the Finance Director for determination of the appropriate
step(s) to take;
      (8)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (9)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protect customer identifying information. In order to further prevent
the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to utility accounts,
the utility will take the following steps with respect to its internal
operating procedures to protect customer identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Ensure complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (5)   Request only the last four digits of Social Security numbers (if
any);
      (6)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (7)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.07 PROGRAM UPDATES.
   The Finance Director will periodically review and update this program to
reflect changes in risks to customers and the soundness of the utility from
identity theft. In doing so, the Finance Director will consider the utility's
experiences with identity theft situations, changes in identity theft methods,
changes in identity theft detection and prevention methods, and changes in the
utility's business arrangements with other entities. After considering these
factors, the Finance Director will determine whether changes to the program,
including the listing of red flags, are warranted. If warranted, the Finance
Director will update the program or present the City Council with his or her
recommended changes and the City Council will make a determination of whether
to accept, modify or reject those changes to the program.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 44.08 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight. Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this program lies with an identity theft designee for the utility. The designee
will be the Finance Director or his or her appointee. The Finance Director will
be responsible for the program administration, for ensuring appropriate
training of Finance Department staff on the program, for reviewing any staff
reports regarding the detection of red flags and the steps for preventing and
mitigating identity theft, determining which steps of prevention and mitigation
should be taken in particular circumstances and considering periodic changes to
the program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports. Finance Department staff responsible for
implementing the program shall be trained either by or under the direction of
the Finance Director in the detection of red flags, and the responsive steps to
be taken when a red flag is detected. Training shall be done on an annual
basis, or when deemed necessary by the Finance Director
   (C)   Service provider arrangements. In the event the utility engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
accounts, the utility will take the following steps to ensure the service
provider performs its activity in accordance with reasonable policies and
procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity
theft.
      (1)   Require, by contract, that service providers have such policies and
procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract, that service providers review the utility's
program and report any red flags to the Finance Director.
   (D)   Non-disclosure of specific practices. For the effectiveness of this
identity theft prevention program, knowledge about specific red flag
identification, detection, mitigation and prevention practices must be limited
to the Finance Director who developed this program and to those employees with
a need to know them. Any documents that may have been produced or are produced
in order to develop or implement this program that list or describe such
specific practices and the information those documents contain are considered
exempt under KRS § 61.878(1)b and are unavailable to the public because
disclosure of them would be likely to substantially jeopardize the security of
information against improper use, that use being to circumvent the utility's
identity theft prevention efforts in order to facilitate the commission of
identity theft.
(Ord. O-20-08, passed 11-11-08)
CHAPTER 45: BUILDING GRANT PROGRAMS
Section
Business Building Facade Upgrades Grant Program
   
45.01   Program introduction
   
45.02   Definitions
   
45.03   Applicant eligibility
   
45.04   Improvement eligibility
   
45.05   General requirements
   
45.06   Program process
Abandoned and Blighted Real Estate
   
45.15   Title and purpose
   
45.16   Definitions
   
45.17   Eligibility
   
45.18   Incentive details
   
45.19   Application requirements
   
45.20   Compliance
BUSINESS BUILDING FACADE UPGRADES GRANT PROGRAM
§ 45.01 PROGRAM INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The Florence Business Building Facade Upgrades Grant Program is hereby
established to provide financial incentives for building upgrades to businesses
located in the Florence Main Street Overlay District and other eligible areas
identified on Exhibit A of Ord. O-22-2023.
   (B)   The program offers property owners a 50% matching grant, with a
maximum grant amount of $10,000 for approved improvements to their buildings.
   (C)   The actual grant amount awarded will depend on the available funding
and the total number of applications received.
   (D)   Property owners must submit a complete application with all required
attachments to the Program Administrator for review.
   (E)   Applications will be reviewed by the Administration Department, and
selected applicants will be recommended to the Program Administrator for final
review and approval.
   (F)   Construction projects initiated prior to the signing of a Facade Grant
Agreement will not be eligible for reimbursement. All facade improvement
projects must be completed within nine months of the agreement's signing to
qualify for grant funds. Failure to complete within nine months will result in
revocation of the funds and the grant will be void.
   (G)   Submission of an application does not guarantee funding.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply:
   “ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT.” The governing body of the City of Florence
responsible for the final review, approval, and oversight of the Business
Building Upgrades Grant Program.
   “DESIGN PROFESSIONAL.” A professional who possesses the necessary education,
experience, and/or licensure to practice in a specific design field, such as
architecture, engineering, or a related discipline.
   “FACADE GRANT AGREEMENT.” The formal agreement entered into between the
grant recipient and the City of Florence, outlining the terms and conditions of
the grant, including project scope, timeline, funding details, recipient
obligations, and compliance requirements.
   “FINAL PAY APPLICATION.” The documentation submitted by the grant recipient
upon completion of the project, including invoices, proof of payment, and any
other required documentation to support the reimbursement request.
   “FLORENCE MAIN STREET OVERLAY DISTRICT.” The designated area within the City
of Florence that encompasses the targeted region for revitalization and
enhancement efforts, as identified on the official zoning map or any subsequent
amendments.
   “GRANT PAYMENT REQUEST.” The formal request submitted by the grant recipient
to request reimbursement for eligible program costs, including the necessary
documentation to support the payment request.
   “OTHER ELIGIBLE AREAS.” The designated area(s) within the City of Florence
targeted for revitalization and enhancement efforts, as depicted in Exhibit A
attached to Ord. O-22-2023.
   “PROFESSIONAL COST ESTIMATES.” Detailed estimates of the total project costs
prepared by reputable contractors in accordance with industry standards and
practices.
   “PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.” The Program Administrator, referred to as the
Director of Administration/City Administrator or their appointed designee, is
the designated individual responsible for overseeing and administering the
Business Building Upgrades Grant Program on behalf of the City of Florence.
   “PROGRAM COSTS.” The expenses directly associated with the approved
improvement project, including labor, materials, and other reasonable expenses
necessary for the completion of the project.
   “PROPERTY OWNER.” The legal owner of a property as recorded in the official
records of the county where the property is located.
   “REPUTABLE CONTRACTOR.” A licensed and insured professional contractor who
is in good standing with the City of Florence, Kentucky Secretary of State and
has a demonstrated track record of successfully completing similar projects and
complying with applicable laws and regulations.
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” The publicly owned area, typically including the street,
sidewalk, and utility easements, that allows for public access and use in
accordance with applicable regulations.
   “TENANT.” An individual or entity that has legal occupancy or leasehold
rights to a property with written consent from the property owner.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.03 APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   To be eligible for a grant under this program, applicants must meet
the following criteria:
      (1)   Properties must be zoned for a business use and be within the
Florence Main Street Overlay District or other eligible areas identified on
Exhibit A of Ord. O-22-2023.
      (2)   Applicants must be the property owners or tenants. Tenants must
obtain written approval from the property owner for proposed work. Applicants
must provide a copy of the lease with their application. Applicants without a
long-term lease may have their grant approval denied.
      (3)   Properties and businesses must be current on all city taxes and
fees, and have no recorded code citations or liens.
      (4)   Properties and businesses must comply with all applicable state and
local laws and regulations regarding licenses and permits.
      (5)   Properties must be at least 25 years old.
      (6)   Businesses may not have more than 30 Full Time Equivalent (FTE)
employees per location.
      (7)   Businesses are eligible for only one grant per calendar year.
      (8)   Properties must be in good standing with the City of Florence and
have no code violations or recorded liens.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.04 IMPROVEMENT ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   The following exterior improvements are eligible for funding through
the grant program, subject to review and approval by the Administration
Department to ensure compliance with program guidelines, harmonious color
schemes, and zoning regulations:
      (1)   Exterior painting or re-siding of a building;
      (2)   Masonry repair;
      (3)   Signage that enhances the building's architectural design,
compatible with surrounding businesses and buildings, and adhering to signage
regulations;
      (4)   Awnings designed as an integral part of the building, using
materials and colors compatible with the entire building and adjacent
structures. Awnings shall not have permanent logos or business-specific
branding permanently sewn or integrated into the awning's fabric;
      (5)   Exterior lighting appropriate for the building and compatible with
adjacent buildings;
      (6)   Window and door repair, replacement, or modification, with
replacements being compatible with the building's design;
      (7)   Facade restoration to return the building to its original
appearance in cases of extensive modifications; and
      (8)   Each eligible improvement must be 50% or more visible from the
right-of-way.
   (B)   The following examples are ineligible for funding through the grant
program:
      (1)   Interior renovations;
      (2)   Landscaping (e.g. plants, trees, mulch);
      (3)   Roof replacement or repair;
      (4)   Non-permanent fixtures (e.g. exterior furniture, A-frame signs);
      (5)   Security systems;
      (6)   Garage door opener or mechanical components;
      (7)   Public property, including sidewalks;
      (8)   Interior window coverings;
      (9)   Foundation work;
      (10)   Parking lot, parking pad, or driveway improvements;
      (11)   Improvements that are not visible from the right-of-way;
      (12)   Improvements not approved through the grant process; or
      (13)   License and permit fees.
   (C)   The Administration Department reserves the right to modify, accept,
reject, or amend the eligibility and approval of any and all improvements in
accordance with the program guidelines and objectives. Any modifications or
amendments to the list of eligible improvements will be communicated to the
applicants during the review and approval process.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Property owners must identify all funding sources for the project
during the application process. These funds must be available to cover the
costs of the proposed improvements at the time of the award agreement.
   (B)   Applicants are responsible for overseeing the entire construction
project, which must be carried out by an approved reputable contractor. No "in-
house" work by the property owner or their employees is allowed.
   (C)   To qualify for reimbursement, applicants must confirm the completion
of all construction phases, settle all outstanding invoices, and submit a final
pay application within nine months of the agreement's execution.
   (D)   The Program Administrator may conduct site visits before, during, and
after construction to ensure compliance with the program's terms.
   (E)   Applicants must engage the services of a design professional to
prepare plans, drawings, and construction specifications. Fees for these
services cannot be included in the program costs.
   (F)   Applicants must provide two professionally prepared cost estimates
from reputable contractors, unless waived by the City Administration.
   (G)   All contractors must provide proof of insurance and an occupational
license.
   (H)   All contractors must provide a lien waiver affidavit as a part of the
approval process.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.06 PROGRAM PROCESS.
   (A)   Pre-Application Meeting.
Applicants are required to meet with the Program Administrator to discuss the
program, the intended project, and the application requirements.
   (B)   Application Review.
The Program Administrator will review eligible applications and supporting
documents and recommend approval, denial, or modifications if necessary.
   (C)   Recommendation to City Administration. Recommended applications will
be forwarded to Program Administrator for final review and approval.
   (D)   Notification of Award. If an application receives final approval, the
Program Administrator will notify the applicant of their approval and the
awarded amount. An agreement will be signed with the grant recipient.
   (E)   Construction. Construction may commence once all agreements are
signed. Upon completion of the improvements within nine months of the award
letter (unless granted a written extension by the Program Administrator), the
grantee must provide proof of expenses and submit a grant payment request to
the Program Administrator. A site visit will be conducted to inspect the
project and ensure compliance before the disbursement of grant funds.
(Ord. O-22-2023, passed 8-8-23)
ABANDONED AND BLIGHTED REAL ESTATE
§ 45.15 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "City of Florence Economic Incentive
and Grant Program to Demolish Abandoned and Blighted Real Estate." The purpose
of this program is to provide financial assistance to qualified property owners
within the City of Florence to facilitate the demolition of abandoned and
blighted buildings for the purposes of redevelopment.
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.16 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   “BLIGHTED OR ABANDONED BUILDING.” The primary building on a parcel of real
estate that is in a dilapidated, unsafe, and unsightly condition.
   “DEMOLITION COSTS.” All costs incurred to demolish all or part of the
blighted or abandoned building, including the cost to clear the site. Cost does
not include permit and/or demolition fees or environmental reports.
   “ELIGIBLE OWNER.” Any owner of real estate within the City of Florence
improving property within the City of Florence.
   “GRANT.” A fund allocation to reimburse the documented cost of demolition,
covering the first $10,000 of demolition cost. Beyond this initial $10,000
amount, the city will match one-half of the total demolition cost, with a
maximum out-of-pocket limit set at $40,000 for the city.
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.17 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   No eligible owner shall receive a grant established by this chapter
without a valid certification by the Economic Development Director that the
reimbursement of demolition costs for abandoned or blighted property will
improve the real estate value of the surrounding real estate.
   (B)   An eligible owner may qualify for a grant established in this chapter
by submitting a written application for it to the city with all the information
required by the city, which shall include, without limitation:
      (1)   Information about the ownership of the real estate including
providing a copy of the deed;
      (2)   Cost estimate for demolition costs;
      (3)   An explanation for how the demolition meets any of the following
factors:
         (a)   Directly increase future revenue/job creation in the City of
Florence;
         (b)   Significantly decrease blight within the City of Florence; and
         (c)   The demolition will significantly increase the property tax
value.
   (C)   An application for the grant established in this chapter shall be
reviewed by the Director of Administration - City Administrator, and the
Director of Business and Community Development of the city for completeness,
accuracy and compliance with this subchapter; but the Director of Business and
Community Development shall certify that said grant will benefit the citizens
of Florence and improve the property values of the City of Florence.
   (D)   An application shall be submitted with a plan, including purpose of
the demolition, use of the property after the demolition, and marketing
strategy.
   (E)   The Administration Department reserves the right to modify, accept,
reject, or amend the eligibility and approval of any and all applications to
demolish abandoned and blighted structures in accordance with the program
guidelines and objectives. Any modifications or amendments will be communicated
to the applicants during the review and approval process.
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.18 INCENTIVE DETAILS.
   (A)   A property owner with a qualifying property and demolition proposal
may be reimbursed for up to 100% of the demolition costs, up to a maximum of
$10,000.
   (B)   If the demolition costs exceed $10,000, the property owner may be
reimbursed an additional 50% of the demolition costs, up to a maximum total
reimbursement by the city of $40,000.
   (C)   If the total demolition cost is $60,000.
      (1)   The first $10,000 is covered by the city. (The remaining amount to
be considered for the matching grant is $50,000 ($60,000 - $10,000).
      (2)   The city's additional contribution would be 50% of $50,000, which
is $25,000.
      (3)   The city's total contribution would be $35,000 ($10,000 + $25,000).
      (4)   Thus, the applicant's responsibility for the demolition costs would
be $25,000, calculated as the remaining amount ($60,000 - $35,000) after the
city's contribution of $35,000 is deducted.
      (5)   Other examples:
 
Example 1 Demolition Cost City’s ResponsibilitApplicants Respon sibility
1         $10,00 0        $10,00 0              $0
2         $60,00 0        $35,00 0              $25,00 0
3         $150,0 00       $40,00 0              $110,0 00
 
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.19 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   To apply for the economic incentive and grant program, the property owner
must submit the following information to the Director of Business and Community
Development:
   (A)   A completed application form;
   (B)   A copy of the deed for the property;
   (C)   A description of the reasons the property should be demolished;
   (D)   A description of the future plans for the property, including future
redevelopment plans and marketing strategy if proposing to sell; and
   (E)   A cost estimate for the proposed demolition (for pre-approval) and a
copy of the receipts for demolition costs (for reimbursement).
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
§ 45.20 COMPLIANCE.
   The property owner shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and
permits related to the demolition and redevelopment of the property.
(Ord. O-23-2023, passed 8-8-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         Chapter
            
50.   SANITARY SEWER RULES AND REGULATIONS
            
51.   STORM WATER DETENTION REGULATIONS
                
APPENDIX A: OVERLAND FLOW CHART
                
APPENDIX B: INTENSITY-DURATION CURVES
            
52.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
            
53.   WATER RULES AND REGULATIONS
            
54.   STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: SANITARY SEWER RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Damaging, destroying wastewater system property prohibited
Use Required
   
50.010   Connection to public sewer system required
   
50.011   Trunk lines to unincorporated areas
Construction of Sanitary Sewers
   
50.020   Approval required
   
50.021   Approval procedure
   
50.022   Determination of amount of sewage
   
50.023   Determination of conduit size
   
50.024   Determination of minimum allowable conduit slope
   
50.025   Manholes
   
50.026   Centerline; branch lines
   
50.027   Compression joints
   
50.028   Sewer pipe
   
50.029   Workmanship and materials
   
50.030   Leakage check
   
50.031   Seals
   
50.032   Inspections
   
50.033   Special agreements
Building Sewers
   
50.045   Permit requirements
   
50.046   Connection of roof downspouts, drains, and the like
   
50.047   Separate sewer for each building
   
50.048   Connection to manhole
   
50.049   Materials
   
50.050   Installation
   
50.051   Residential subdivisions
   
50.052   Buildings where building drain too low
   
50.053   Maintenance, cleaning of building sewer
   
50.054   Existing septic tanks
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
50.070   When permitted
   
50.071   Construction; permit required
   
50.072   Compliance with state, other applicable regulations
   
50.073   Connection to public sewers prohibited
   
50.074   Discontinuance of use when public sewers become available
Discharges Into Wastewater Treatment System
   
50.090   Surface water, groundwater, and the like
   
50.091   Discharges into natural outlets or storm sewers
   
50.092   Cooling waters, process waters, and the like
   
50.093   Discharges capable of causing fires, obstructions, or the like
   
50.094   Radioactive materials
   
50.095   Wastes from garbage grinders
   
50.096   Discharges directly into manhole or other opening
   
50.097   Wastewater containing metals or similar substances
   
50.098   Prohibited discharges
   
50.099   Accidental discharges
   
50.100   Authority of city to make special agreements as to discharges
   
50.101   Authority to reject wastes, require pretreatment, or the like
   
50.102   Discharges in violation declared nuisance; remedies
   
50.103   Infiltration of surface runoff or groundwater
Pretreatment and Control Facilities
   
50.120   Submission of information as to pretreatment or control facilities
   
50.121   Approval of facilities not a release from liability
   
50.122   Maintenance
   
50.123   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
Fills
   
50.135   Permit required
   
50.136   Replacement costs of existing or modified waterworks treatment system
Holding Tank Wastes
   
50.150   Prohibited discharges
   
50.151   Approval of Commission as to certain discharges
Industrial Wastes
   
50.165   Wastewater discharge permits
   
50.166   Required reports from user
   
50.167   Monitoring system may be required
   
50.168   Inspections; samples
   
50.169   Approval of city does not relieve discharger of liability
   
50.170   Special agreements
Sewer Service Charges
   
50.185   Basis of charge
   
50.186   Exemptions
   
50.187   Wells, private sources of water to be registered
   
50.188   Reduction of charges; special meters
   
50.189   City has authority to install additional meters
   
50.190   Auxiliary meters
   
50.191   Method of installation of meters
   
50.192   Billing, collection
   
50.193   Elevated bill due to water leakage
   
50.194   Service fee for returned checks
Cross-reference:
   Water service deposits, see
§ 53.03
Surcharge
   
50.205   Wastewater treatment service surcharge
   
50.206   One sample per location taken annually by city
   
50.207   Industrial waste questionnaire to be completed
   
50.208   Observation, sampling of wastes
   
50.209   "Standard Analytical Methods" to be used for tests, analysis
   
50.210   Strength of wastewater determines surcharge
   
50.211   Discharge of uncontaminated wastewater
   
50.212   Discharge unmeasurable by meter
Schedule of Rates and Charges
   
50.225   Water rates
   
50.226   Interim sanitary sewer rates
   
50.227   Permanent sanitary sewer rates
   
50.228   Wastes not returned to system
   
50.229   Billing and collection
   
50.230   Rate review
   
50.231   Revision of rates to meet bond requirements
   
50.232   All users to be metered; no free service
   
50.233   Owners, occupants jointly liable
   
50.234   Water and Sewer Commission to enforce
Fees
   
50.250   Inspection fees
   
50.251   Tap-in charges
   
50.252   Private wastewater disposal system permit fee
   
50.253   Sewer impact fee
Water and Sewer Department
   
50.265   Establishment
   
50.266   Inspections
Compliance With Other Regulations
   
50.280   Notice of other applicable regulations
   
50.281   State Plumbing Code
   
50.282   State Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Violations
   
50.300   Illegal connections
   
50.301   Violation of pH regulations
   
50.302   Discharge causing damage
   
50.303   Notice of violation
   
50.304   Failure to remedy defects
   
50.305   Revocation of permit, discontinuance of service
   
50.306   Other remedies
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANALYTICAL TESTING." All methods of sample collection, preservation, and
analysis as prescribed in 40 CFR 136, "Test Procedures for the Analysis of
Pollutants."
   "A.S.T.M." The American Society of Testing and Materials.
   "AUXILIARY METER."
      (1)   A meter or meters used on a primary water supply other than a
municipal water supply, such as, wells, private water company, and the like.
      (2)   A meter or meters used to supplement the meter or meters measuring
a municipal water supply and considered necessary in the determination of the
sewerage service charge or surcharge.
   "BENEFICIAL USES." Uses of the waters of the state that may be protected
against quality degradation, including, but not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural, and industrial water supply, power generation,
recreation, aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and
enhancement of fish, wildlife, and other aquatic resources or reserves, and
other uses, both tangible or intangible as specified by federal or state law.
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND" or "BOD." Oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per
liter. The values shall be as determined by the methods of analytical testing,
except that when the BOD value is to be used in determining wastewater
treatment system or industrial cost recovery charges, and the BOD test does not
produce an accurate measure of the oxygen demand actually exerted by the waste
when undergoing treatment, then for use in determining the charges the BOD
shall be calculated by whichever of the following formulae gives the more
accurate measure of oxygen demand actually exerted.
   BOD = (F1)(COD)
       or
   BOD = (F2)(TVR)
Wherein F1 and F2 are constants to be determined for each wastewater treatment
plant and TVR is the total volatile residue in milligrams per liter as
determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer. The
building drain shall extend to three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   "BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY." A building drain which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   "BUILDING DRAIN, STORM." A building drain which conveys storm water
or other drainage, but no sewage.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      (1)   "BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY." A building sewer which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   "BUILDING SEWER, STORM." A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other drainage, but no sewage.
      (3)   "SEWER TAP." That point where a tie in is made to an existing sewer
system.
   "CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND" or "COD." The oxygen equivalent of that portion of
the organic matter that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical
oxidant. The values shall be as determined by the methods of analytical
testing.
   "CHIEF ENGINEER." The Consulting Engineer or his deputies or agents of the
Water and Sewer Commission.
   "COMBINED SEWER." A sewer which is intended to serve as a storm sewer and a
sanitary sewer.
   "COMMISSION." Florence Water and Sewer Commission, City of Florence, County
of Boone, Kentucky.
   "COMMISSION 201 AREA." The service area as defined in the Amended 201
Facility Plan.
   "COMMISSIONER OF SANITATION DISTRICT," "SANITATION COMMISSIONER," or
"COMMISSIONER." The Commissioner of Sanitation Districts, as provided for in
KRS 220.020. Through the reorganization of state government by executive order
of the Governor and ratification by the Kentucky Legislature, the Commissioner
has been identified as the Secretary for the Department for Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection, Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "CONTAMINATION." An impairment of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health, such as, through
poisoning or through the spread of disease. "CONTAMINATION" shall include any
equivalent effect resulting from the disposal of wastewater, whether or not
waters of the state are affected.
   "COOLING WATER." The cleaned wastewaters discharged from any system of heat
transfer such as condensation, air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration.
   "EPA." The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or any agency
which is successor thereto.
   "FEDERAL ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, PL 92-500, and any
amendments thereto; as well as guidelines, limitations, and standards
promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   "GARBAGE." Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, or dispensing of food, or from the handling, storage, or sale of
produce. "GARBAGE" is distinguished from "Shredded Garbage."
   "GRANT AMOUNT." The portion of cash payment or contribution made by the
Environmental Protection Agency or other state or federal governmental agency
for the purpose of financing allowable wastewater treatment project costs.
   "HOLDING TANK WASTE." Any sanitary waste from holding tanks or chambers such
as are used in connection with boats, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, or
other isolated facilities from which sanitary wastes emanate. This definition
includes sanitary wastes from septic tanks.
   "INDUSTRIAL PLANT." Any facility which discharges industrial wastes.
   "INDUSTRIAL USER." For purposes of industrial cost recovery, any
nongovernmental user of the wastewater treatment system identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, l972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
      (1)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
      (2)   Division B. Mining.
      (3)   Division D. Manufacturing.
      (4)   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services.
      (5)   Division I. Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The wastes admissible to the wastewater treatment
system from industrial manufacturing processes, trade, or business, or from the
development, recovery, or processing of natural resources, as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   "KDNREP." The Kentucky Department for Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection, or any agency successor thereto.
   "KJELDAHL NITROGEN." The sum of free-ammonia and organic nitrogen compounds
which are converted to ammonium sulfate (NH4 )2SO4, under test conditions. The
values shall be as determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   "MAINTENANCE." Keeping the wastewater treatment works in a state of repair
and shall include expenditures necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity (capability) for which the works were
designed and constructed.
   "MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY." A nonresidential user that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday; or
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the sewer system;
or
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts; or
      (4)   Discharge wastewater that is found by the Commissioner or the NPDES
permit issuance authority in connection with the issuance of a NPDES permit to
the public wastewater treatment system receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
the wastewater treatment system or upon the quality of effluent therefrom.
   "MANAGER" or "GENERAL MANAGER." The Manager of the Florence Water and Sewer
Commission, Florence, Kentucky, or his deputies and agents. "GENERAL MANAGER,
DISTRICT NO. 1," shall mean General Manager of the Campbell Kenton Sanitation
District No. 1.
   "MASS EMISSION RATE." The weight of material discharged to the sewer system
during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the mass emission
rate shall mean kilograms per day of a particular constituent or combination of
constituents.
   "mg/l." Milligrams per liter.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   "NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE." Sewage having daily average concentration values
of not more than the following in the pollutant categories indicated:
Biochemical oxygen demand      240 mg/l
Suspended solids         300 mg/l
Total phosphorus as P         20.0 mg/l
Total kjeldahl nitrogen as N       30.0 mg/l
Biodegradable oils and greases in less than floating amounts.
   "NPDES PERMIT." National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit.
   "NUISANCE." Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or is an obstruction to the free use of property so as
to interfere with human comfort or enjoyment of life or property, whether
affecting individual interests per se or affecting at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood of any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance, interference or damage may not be inflicted equally
upon the persons therein.
"PERSON, ENTERPRISE, ESTABLISHMENT OR OWNER."  Any individual, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, or other group or association, including
public corporation.
   "pH." The logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ion in grams per liter of solution.
   "PHOSPHORUS." Total phosphorus content in wastewater as determined by the
methods of analytical testing.
   "POLLUTION." An alteration of the quality of the water of the state by waste
to a degree which affects such waters for beneficial use or facilities which
serve such beneficial uses. "POLLUTION" may include contamination.
   "PRIVATE SEWER." Any privy, privy vault, cesspool, septic tank, or other
means of sewage disposal or treatment not connected to any public sewerage
system.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Any government entity having jurisdiction.
   "PUBLIC CORPORATION." Any city, county, school district, water district, and
any other governmental agency or political subdivision clothed with the power
of levying taxes or issuing bonds payable from special funds.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer which is controlled, owned, operated, and maintained
by a public authority.
   "RECOVERED AMOUNTS." The amount received from assessment of the industrial
cost recovery charge.
   "REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR." The Regional Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency for Region IV.
   "REPLACEMENT." Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
system was designed and constructed. Operation and maintenance includes
"REPLACEMENT."
   "RULES AND REGULATIONS." The provisions of this chapter.
   "SANITARY SEWAGE." Sewage containing water-carried wastes contributed from
premises by reason of human occupance and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial wastes.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes and to which storm, surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally
admitted.
   "SANITATION DISTRICT" or "SANITATION DISTRICT NO. l." The Sanitation
District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties.
   "SEWAGE." A combination of the liquid and water-carried waste discharged
from premises.
   "SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT." Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   "SEWER." Any pipe or conduit for conveying wastewater or drainage water.
   "SEWER SERVICE CHARGE." The charge, based upon the amount of water supplied
to the user, that he must pay for the use of and the services rendered by the
sewage system and facilities of Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and
Kenton Counties, Kentucky.
   "SEWER SYSTEM." All facilities for collecting, pumping, and transporting
wastewater to the treatment facilities.
   "SHREDDED GARBAGE." Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than l/2-inch in any dimension.
"SHREDDED GARBAGE" is distinguished from "Garbage."
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   "SPECIAL METER." The term applied to an approved meter designed for
measurement of water and used specifically for the sole purpose of measuring
the amount of water which does not enter the sewerage system and for which a
user expects to receive a reduction in their sewerage service charge.
   "STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION." The classification of users based on
the l972 Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SIC), Office of Management
and Budget of the United States of America.
   "STANDARD METHODS." The publication: Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, latest edition, American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association, Water Pollution Control Federation.
   "STORM SEWER" or "STORM DRAIN." A sewer which carries storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters, and drainage, but which excludes sanitary sewage
and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS." Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering, expressed in milligrams per liter. The value shall be as
determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   "TOTAL SOLIDS." Solids that remain after all liquid has been evaporated,
expressed in milligrams per liter. The values shall be as determined by the
methods of analytical testing.
   "TOXIC POLLUTANT." Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which
interfere with the proper operation of a wastewater treatment plant or which is
designated as toxic by the General Manager.
   "TREATMENT SURCHARGE." The charge for which the commercial or industrial
user must pay in addition to the sewer service charge if the sewage which he is
discharging into the sewerage system exceeds the specifications for normal
strength sewage.
   "UNPOLLUTED WATER." Water to which no constituent has been added, either
intentionally or accidentally.
   "USEFUL LIFE." The estimated period of time during which a wastewater
treatment works will be required to perform a function which is necessary to
the wastewater treatment system's operation.
   "USER." Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into a public sewer.
   "USER CLASSIFICATION." The identification of a user as to the type of
premises from which wastewater is discharged. Such classification shall be
assigned by the Water and Sewer Commission and shall include residential,
industrial, public, and commercial users.
      (1)   "COMMERCIAL USER." Any and all users of the wastewater treatment
system not otherwise classified.
      (2)   "INDUSTRIAL USER." Any user which discharges industrial wastes.
      (3)   "PUBLIC USER." Any public or parochial school, college, or
university, churches, public parks, public or governmental building, charitable
institutions, and other similar users of an eleemosynary nature.
      (4)   "RESIDENTIAL USER." Any single- or two-family housing unit.
   "WASTE." Sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid, solid,
gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or
animal origin, or from any production manufacturing, or processing operation of
whatever nature, including such wastes placed within containers of whatever
nature prior to and for purposes of disposal.
   "WASTEWATER." A combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
premises.
   "WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS" The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume and
flow rate, and such other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure
the contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT." See "SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT."
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM." All of the connected treatment works
necessary to meet the requirements of Title III of the Federal Act and involved
in:
      (1)   The transport of wastewaters from premises to a plant or facility
wherein treatment of the wastewater is accomplished;
      (2)   The treatment of the wastewaters to remove pollutants; and
      (3)   The ultimate disposal, including recycling, or re-use, of the
treated wastewaters and residues resulting from the treatment process.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (WTS) SERVICE CHARGE." See "SEWER SERVICE
CHARGE."
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (WTS) SURCHARGE." See "TREATMENT SURCHARGE".
   "WATERWAY" or "WATERCOURSE." A channel in which waters of the state flow
either continuously or intermittently.
   "W.P.C.F." The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.002 DAMAGING, DESTROYING WASTEWATER SYSTEM PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, deface, cover, or tamper with any wastewater treatment works
which is a part of the wastewater treatment system under the General Manager's
management.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
USE REQUIRED
§ 50.010 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the Commission 201
area and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
located a public sanitary or combined sewer, is hereby required, at his
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, providing the public sewer is within 250 feet of the house, building, or
property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.011 TRUNK LINES TO UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
   The city agrees to extend trunk lines to the adjacent unincorporated areas
as is outlined in the amended 201 project.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
CONSTRUCTION OF SANITARY SEWERS
§ 50.020 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sanitary sewer which discharges either directly or indirectly into
the wastewater treatment system under the management of the Water and Sewer
Commission wastewater lift stations or wastewater treatment plants shall be
constructed without prior written approval by the Commission of the plans
wherefore, as to concept and detail.
   (B)   Any type of development which is commercial or industrial must have
the approval, not only of the Water and Sewer Commission, but the Sanitation
District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties. All plans should be submitted
to the Commission which will forward the concept review, and the detailed
review, if necessary to the Sanitation District No. 1.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.021 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   Plans submission requirements for review shall be as follows:
   (A)   Concept review.
      (1)   Letter. (To contain the following):
         (a)   A request for plan review and approval.
         (b)   Type of development, such as, residential, commercial,
industrial, and the like. Information as to size of development, number of
units, and the like shall be included.
         (c)   An estimate of sanitary flow generated by the proposed
development.
         (d)   An estimate of cost for the wastewater treatment system,
including a separate item for any waste- water treatment plant or wastewater
lift station proposed in the design.
         (e)   A time schedule for construction of the development in terms of
dwelling units per year or proportion of the estimated flow to be added to the
wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   Plans.
         (a)   Four prints showing proposed development on a 200 scale
topographic map. This plan should show street layouts, existing sanitary,
combined, and storm sewers, including sewer numbers, sizes, grades, locations,
and invert elevations. All existing work should be shown with dashed line work.
With solid line work, the engineer should show proposed sanitary and storm
sewer locations, sizes, grades, and flow arrows (or invert elevations).
         (b)   In lieu of the above, the engineer may elect to submit detailed
construction drawings for concept reviews. In such cases, the same number of
sets as outlined above will be needed. The letter containing the information
requested above will be necessary in either case.
         (c)   A grading plan.
   (B)   Detail review.
      (1)   Prior concept approval.
      (2)   Six sets of detailed plans.
      (3)   Two drainage area maps.
   (C)   Concurrent concept and detail review.
      (1)   If the nature or simplicity of the proposed wastewater treatment
system is such that concept and detail reviews can, in the opinion of the
Commission or the District, be effectively and efficiently accomplished
concurrently, the Commission or the District may elect to do so.
      (2)   Construction plans shall be drawn on at least 24" x 36" sheets to a
scale of one inch equals 50 feet. Area plans shall be drawn to a scale of one
inch equals 200 feet. Reduced prints will not be accepted.
      (3)   All elevations proposed and shown shall be referenced to sea level
datum and each set of plans shall show the description and elevation of the
public bench mark used in the development survey.
      (4)   All plans shall bear the signature and seal of the registered
Kentucky professional engineer who has prepared them and shall provide space
for the approval of the Chief Engineer.
      (5)   Plans requiring the approval of the State of Kentucky Department
for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection will be transmitted by the
Chief Engineer following his approval.
      (6)   Concept approval of the proposed wastewater treatment system shall
become void if plans for detailed review have not been submitted within 12
months from the date of the concept approval letter.
      (7)   Detailed approval of the proposed wastewater treatment system shall
become void if construction has not commenced within 12 months and completed
within 36 months from the date of the approval for construction letter. Concept
and detailed approval may be extended by the Chief Engineer for a period not to
exceed 12 months with concurrence of the General Manager.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.022 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   Residential sanitary sewage. The average flow of sanitary sewage shall
be computed on the basis of 100 gallons per capita. The peak flow for various
situations shall be in accordance with the following table:
 
Population Peak Flow
Under 750  4.0 times the average
Under 1000 3.9 times the average
Under 1750 3.8 times the average
Under 2500 3.6 times the average
Under 5000 3.3 times the average
Over 5000  The Engineer must be consulted
 
   (B)   Industrial or commercial sewage. The amount of sewage shall be fixed
after consultation with the Engineer.
   (C)   Infiltration. An allowance of 1000 gallons per acre per day for the
gross tributary area of the drainage basin shall be added to the above peak
sanitary flows.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.023 DETERMINATION OF CONDUIT SIZE.
   (A)   The minimum conduit diameter for sewer purposes (except building
sewers) shall be eight inches. Sewers up to and including 24 inches in diameter
shall be designed for the above volumes of sewage with the sewer flowing half
full. Sewers 27 inches in diameter shall be designed for the above volumes of
sewage with the sewer flowing at 0.6 depth. Sewers 30 inches in diameter and
larger shall be designed for the above volumes of sewage with the sewer flowing
at l.7 depth.
   (B)   Manning's Formula with an "n" factor of 0.013 shall be used in design.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.024 DETERMINATION OF MINIMUM ALLOWABLE CONDUIT SLOPE.
   The minimum allowable slope shall be that which results in a velocity of two
feet per second when the conduit flows at l/4 of full depth.
Size Slope (Percent)
Size            Slope (Percent)
8-inch conduit  0.50
10-inch conduit 0.50
12-inch conduit 0.40
15-inch conduit 0.30
18-inch conduit 0.24
21-inch conduit 0.19
24-inch conduit 0.16
27-inch conduit 0.14
30-inch conduit 0.12
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.025 MANHOLES.
   (A)   Manholes shall be placed:
      (1)   At intersections of two or more sewers;
      (2)   At changes of size of pipe, alignment, or grade;
      (3)   At the head end of the sewer;
      (4)   At curves on sewers (beginning or end) 30 inches in diameter and
larger; and
      (5)   At intermediate intervals.
   (B)   Maximum spacing shall be 400 feet.
   (C)   Manhole frames and covers shall be in accordance with the
specifications and standards of the Sanitation District No. 1.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.026 CENTERLINE; BRANCH LINES.
   (A)   The centerline of the sewer shall be a minimum of ten feet from the
street or road right-of-way whenever possible.
   (B)   When branch sewer connections are made to a manhole, the branch line
must be connected at the bench wall level. The bench wall shall be channeled in
such a manner as to direct the incoming flow to the outlet pipe.
   (C)   If the main sewer is three feet or more below the branch sewer, the
branch sewer connection shall be made with a drop connection, in accordance
with the Sanitation District No. 1 standards unless a specific variance is
granted by the Chief Engineer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.027 COMPRESSION JOINTS.
   All sanitary sewers, including sanitary building sewers and manholes, shall
be built with compression joints, in accordance with the Sanitation District
No. 1 specifications and standards.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.028 SEWER PIPE.
   (A)   For sewer slopes 15% or greater, pipe shall be ductile cast iron. For
sewer slopes between 15% and 25% key blocks shall be provided at every joint.
   (B)   When it is considered advisable in the judgment of the Chief Engineer,
the sewer pipe shall be laid in a concrete cradle, in accordance with the
Sanitation District No. 1 standards.
   (C)   Sewer pipe in creek beds shall be encased in concrete when it is
considered advisable in the judgment of the Engineer. When the cover on such
pipe is two feet or less, the pipe shall be ductile cast iron, encased as noted
above.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.029 WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All workmanship and all materials furnished shall comply with the
requirements of the approved plans and specifications. If at any time within
one year after the date of the final inspection, any defect should appear,
which in the opinion of the Water and Sewer Commission, is due to inferior
materials or workmanship, the developer shall guarantee that he will do
immediately, without cost to the Water and Sewer Commission and the Sanitation
District, whatever is necessary to remedy the defects. The Water and Sewer
Commission will notify the developer in writing of the defects and the repairs
to be made, and the developer shall agree to begin the repairs within ten days
from the date of notice.
   (B)   The design and construction of all sanitary sewers connected, either
directly or indirectly to the wastewater treatment system managed by the Water
and Sewer Commission shall, as a minimum, meet all published standards and
specifications as established by the Sanitation District No. 1.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.030 LEAKAGE CHECK.
   All sewers that discharge to the Water and Sewer Commission's wastewater
treatment system either directly or indirectly, shall be subjected to a leakage
check. This check is in the form of an infiltration or exfiltration test with
water or by an air test as outlined in the Sanitation District No. 1's standard
specifications. A report must be supplied to the General Manager showing the
results of the leakage check.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.031 SEALS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers in subdivisions under construction shall be sealed
where they connect to the existing sewers. This work shall be done only in the
presence of a Water and Sewer Commission inspector.
   (B)   After construction has been completed and the sewers in the
subdivision have been tested and found to be substantially completed and
operational, the seals shall be removed by the developer in the presence of a
Water and Sewer Commission inspector.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.032 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All building sewers which connect either directly or indirectly into
the wastewater treatment system under the management of the Water and Sewer
Commission shall be inspected by, and subject to testing under the supervision
of the Water and Sewer Commission or its designated representatives and
Kentucky Division of Plumbing.
   (B)   All sewers which will connect either directly or indirectly into the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the Water and Sewer
Commission and which are to be constructed by any person, shall be inspected
by, and subject to the testing under the supervision of the Commission or its
designated representatives.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.033 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangements between the Water and Sewer Commission and
the developer, or as preventing the Commission from stopping issuance of
additional permits or revoking outstanding permits should conditions warrant
such action in the opinion of the General Manager.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
BUILDING SEWERS
§ 50.045 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall install or cause to be installed any sewer service
connection, building sewer, or make any service connection to any public sewer
within the Water and Sewer Commission service area or jurisdiction without a
plumbing permit secured from the State Plumbing Program Director, Kentucky
Department for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection and the
construction shall conform to the requirements of the Kentucky State Plumbing
Law and Code, Rules and Regulations. The construction shall also conform to the
Rules and Regulations of the Water and Sewer Commission as specified herein and
to any other public corporation having jurisdiction and control of the public
sewer to which the connection is being made or will be made. Where the
connection is being made to a Water and Sewer Commission's sewer, a written
permit must also be secured from the General Manager.
   (B)   Permits to connect building sewers, to open, or alter any public
sanitary or combined sewer or appurtenance will be issued to a person
demonstrating proper ability to perform the work either by training or
experience.
   (C)   The person to whom a connection permit is issued will be held
responsible for the proper installation of the building sewer in accordance
with this chapter, subject, however, to the condition that he holds the Water
and Sewer Commission harmless from any loss or damage.
   (D)   The owner or his agent shall make application for a building sewer
connection permit on a special form to be obtained from the Water and Sewer
Commission. The application for permit shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the General Manager. A separate building sewer connection permit must be
obtained for each building sewer connection.
   (E)   No unauthorized person or public corporation shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any Commission sewer
or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
General Manager at least three working days before commencing work.
      (1)   The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Water and Sewer Commission. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the General Manager.
      (2)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer to the Commission sewer shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the Commission for any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (3)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
General Manager and the Plumbing Inspector at least three days in advance when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and when it is ready for connection
to the public sewer. The connection to the service connection sewer and the
final connection to an existing building sewer or building drain shall be made
under the supervision of the Manager, the Plumbing Inspector, or their
representative.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.046 CONNECTION OF ROOF DOWNSPOUTS, DRAINS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person or public corporation shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior or interior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.047 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building that is to be occupied unless otherwise approved by the General
Manager. The minimum size shall be four inches for a single-family unit.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.048 CONNECTION TO MANHOLE.
   Building sewer connections to a manhole are prohibited unless otherwise
approved by the General Manager.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.049 MATERIALS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of materials meeting the standards
of the Water and Sewer Commission and requirements of the Kentucky State
Plumbing Law and Code, Rules and Regulations. It shall be laid at a minimum
grade of l/4-inch per lineal foot from the building to the public sewer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.050 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Building sewers shall be constructed as part of the improvement to the
property line of the premises served.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
curb or property line, if a service connection sewer is available at this
location. Where no curb or property line located service connection sewer is
available, the owner of the building sewer shall extend the building sewer to
the public sewer and connect to the nearest wye or tee available on the public
sewer. If no wye or tee exists on the public sewer within the immediate
vicinity of the frontage of the lot or tract of land that the building sewer is
to serve, the owner of the building sewer shall have a wye or tee installed on
the public sewer, in accordance with requirements herein set forth.
   (C)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient
to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform
grade and in straight alignment. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (D)   Whenever the public sewer is deep enough to serve basements, all
sanitary fixtures should be connected to the public sewer by gravity. This
connection should include all laundry facilities and the basement floor drain.
Backwater traps are recommended for the basement floor drain when connections
are made in this manner.
   (E)   In those instances where the public sewer is not of sufficient depth
to serve the basement fixtures, the owner will be permitted to install a high
level connection and pump laundry waste and the waste from the basement floor
drain to the sanitary sewer by means of a sump pump.
   (F)   The removal of an existing sump pump shall be at the option of the
owner. However, if it is to remain in service to pump sanitary sewage into the
building sewer (including laundry waste and the basement floor drain), all
foundations thereto shall be permanently disconnected therefrom and handled in
some other manner.
If it is to remain in place to pump ground water or storm water, all sanitary
connections shall be broken and sealed and the discharge from the sump pump
shall be piped to a proper storm drain, natural outlet or drainage field. An
abandoned drainage field or drainage well may be used for disposal of ground
water or storm drain.
   (G)   Connections to existing public sewers where wyes or tees are not
available shall be made by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Install a wye or tee saddle according to details shown on
Commission Standard Detail, a copy of which is available at the Water and Sewer
Commission office.
      (2)   Install a tee saddle, using a Wheeler-Pilot Hole Cutter (tapping
machine) or equivalent machine and a saddle expressly made to fit into the hole
formed by the machine. The saddle shall be sealed to the sewer with an epoxy
material formulated for bonding to the sewer material and the saddle. The
saddle material may be a corrosion resistant material or a polyester. The
strength of the installed and bonded saddle shall exceed the strength of a
factory installed tee.
      (3)   Install a standard wye or tee pipe section, by cutting out the
sewer pipe, maintaining squared ends, inserting the standard wye or tee pipe
section, and sealing each joint with a rubber collar adapter. Each joint space
between the existing pipe and the inserted section shall not exceed one inch.
The collar adapter shall be compressed to the pipe by means of two stainless
steel screw-takeup bands.
   (H)   The details and construction of all connections shall be inspected and
approved by the General Manager or his authorized representative and by the
Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.051 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In the development of residential subdivisions with sanitary sewers, all
lots shall be served by connections to the sanitary sewer system either by
gravity or by means of a pump or ejector. No individual disposal devices will
be permitted.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.052 BUILDINGS WHERE BUILDING DRAIN TOO LOW.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the sanitary sewer system, any sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.053 MAINTENANCE, CLEANING OF BUILDING SEWER.
   (A)   The owner of the premises served by a sewer shall be responsible for
the operation and cleaning of the building sewer from the building to the point
of connection with the public sewer, and for the maintenance, operation,
cleaning, repair, and reconstruction of the building sewer from the building to
the sewer line.
   (B)   The owner or agent must observe all pertinent OSHA requirements while
constructing building sewers.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.054 EXISTING SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   Existing septic tanks shall be abandoned insofar as disposal of
sanitary sewage is concerned when the building sewer is connected to the public
sewer.
   (B)   The existing building sewer from a building to a septic tank may be
used only when it is found on examination and test by the General Manager to be
in good condition and to meet substantially all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 50.070 WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   Septic tanks, privies, and cesspools are prohibited where a public
sanitary sewer is available.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available to a premises, the
building sewer shall be connected to an individual private sewage disposal
system complying with the requirements of the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.071 CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the Water and Sewer
Commission. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the Commission which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Commission.
   (B)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Commission. The Commission shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Commission when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Commission.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.072 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE, OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all applicable regulations of the Department
of Public Health of the State of Kentucky.
   (B)   The owner shall, at his own expense, operate and maintain the
individual private sewage disposal facility to the satisfaction of the
appropriate public authority.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.073 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual private residential sewage disposal
facility to be connected to any public sanitary, storm, or combined sewer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.074 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE WHEN PUBLIC SEWERS BECOME AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sanitary or combined sewer becomes available for
use by property served by an individual private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made to the public wastewater treatment system by
and at the expense of the owner. Any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar
individual private sewage disposal facility shall be abandoned to the
satisfaction of the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
DISCHARGES INTO WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
§ 50.090 SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly
or indirectly, to the sanitary sewer system, surface water, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsoil drains, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters.
   (B)   No person constructing a sanitary sewer or sanitary building sewer,
shall leave same open, unsealed, or incomplete in such fashion as to permit
storm or subsurface water to enter such sewers.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.091 DISCHARGES INTO NATURAL OUTLETS OR STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet or storm sewer any sanitary sewage or other polluted waters. Effluent
from privately owned individual household disposal devices shall not be
discharged to storm sewers.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
such sewers as are specifically designed and designated as storm sewers or a
natural outlet.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.092 COOLING WATERS, PROCESS WATERS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge unpolluted water, including, but not limited to
cooling water, process water, or blow-down from cooling towers or evaporative
coolers through direct or indirect connections to a sanitary sewer.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.093 DISCHARGES CAPABLE OF CAUSING FIRES, OBSTRUCTIONS, OR THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge to the wastewater treatment system wastes which
cause, threaten to cause, or are capable of causing either alone or by
interaction with other substances:
   (A)   A fire or explosion;
   (B)   Obstruction of flow in or damage or injury to the wastewater treatment
system;
   (C)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
   (D)   A nuisance or prevention of the effective maintenance or operation of
the wastewater treatment system, through having a strong, unpleasant odor;
   (E)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
malodorous gas-producing substances;
   (F)   Interference with the wastewater treatment processes;
   (G)   The wastewater treatment system's effluent or any other product of the
treatment process such as residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and re-use or to interfere with the reclamation process;
   (H)   A detrimental environmental impact or a nuisance in the water of the
state or a condition unacceptable to any public authority;
   (I)   Any condition, such as discoloration, in the wastewater treatment
system's effluents such that receiving water quality requirements established
by law cannot be met;
   (J)   Conditions at or near any wastewater treatment works which violate any
statute, permit, rule, regulation, or ordinance of any public authority;
   (K)   Quantities or rates of flow which overload any wastewater treatment
works or cause excessive Water and Sewer Commission operation or maintenance
costs, or use a disproportionate share of a wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.094 RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge material licensed by the Federal Nuclear
Regulatory Commission or other radioactive material into the wastewater
treatment system.
   (B)   Excreta from individuals undergoing medical diagnosis or therapy with
radioactive material shall be exempt.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.095 WASTES FROM GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastes from garbage grinders into the
wastewater treatment system except:
      (1)   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on the
premises, or
      (2)   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from the
General Manager, or in the case of commercial or industrial user has obtained
the permit from both the Water and Sewer Commission and the Sanitation District
No. 1.
   (B)   All garbage grinders shall shred the waste to a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
public sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials, or garden refuse.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.096 DISCHARGES DIRECTLY INTO MANHOLE OR OTHER OPENING.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or other
opening in the wastewater treatment system other than through an approved
building sewer, unless upon written application to the General Manager.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.097 WASTEWATER CONTAINING METALS OR SIMILAR SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing metals or substances
in concentrations greater than those listed in the table below, wherein
concentrations are those of composite samples collected over the daily period
of operations in proportion to flow so as to produce a representative sample.
However, if Q, the daily discharge of a user in gallons per day, is less than
25,000, then the allowable concentration shall be calculated by multiplying the
tabulated value by 25,000, but in no event shall an allowable concentration of
metals exceed five times the respective tabulated value.
TABLE
Effluent Limitations
Substance Concentration, mg/l
TABLE
Effluent Limitations
Substance       Concentration, mg/l
Arsenic         4
Barium          100
Cadmium         3
Chromium, total 6
CN, A           2
CN, total       10
Lead            2
Mercury         .05
Selenium        3
Silver          l
Zinc            6
   (B)   These effluent limitations have been established to assure compliance
with NPDES permits and to protect personnel and treatment plant processes, and
may require adjustment if such compliance or protection is not achieved. Any
adjustment will be made only after notice and a public hearing, as required by
law.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the Water and
Sewer Commission and the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton
Counties shall require pretreatment according to the applicable EPA
pretreatment standards whenever so ordered by governmental authorities, either
by the terms of the NPDES permit or by a condition of a financial grant, or for
other reasons arising from the Water and Sewer Commission's or the Sanitation
District No. 1's legal obligations and duties.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.098 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the wastewater
treatment system any of the following described substances, materials, waters,
or wastes:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. (65° C.).
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing floating oils, fat, or grease or
containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (C)   Any water or wastes containing dissolved gases (such as H2S, sulfur
oxides, nitrogen oxides, and ammonia) in concentrations sufficient to cause
poisonous or toxic fumes or wastewater, or a malodorous gas of harmful
condition.
   (D)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, asphaltic materials, cement or concrete, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or
distillery spent grains, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery waste bulk
solids, or any other solid or viscous substances, in amounts capable of causing
obstruction to flow in, or interference with the proper operation of a
wastewater treatment system.
   (E)   Any water or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.50 mg/l. These
limits may be modified if the aggregate of contributions throughout the area of
service create treatment difficulties, or produce wastewater treatment plant
effluent discharges to receiving waters which may be prohibitive.
   (F)   Any water or wastes, acid or alkaline in reaction, and having
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment or personnel of the Water and Sewer Commission. The acidic or
alkaline character of such wastes must be neutralized at all times to within
the permissible range of pH, which range is between 6.0 and 9.0.
   (G)   Any water or wastes containing objectionable or toxic substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at a
wastewater treatment plant exceeds the limits established by the Sanitation
District No. 1 for such materials.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.099 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide facilities for protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other regulated wastes. Such facilities
shall be provided and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans
delineating such facilities and detailed operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be maintained by the user and available for inspection by the
Water and Sewer Commission and the Sanitation District No. 1 at any reasonable
time, upon request of the above agencies.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Water and Sewer Commission and the Sanitation
District No. 1 immediately of any discharges into the sewer system or highway
spills of wastes which may enter the sewer system in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Commission and the Sanitation
District No. 1 to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment system or the
receiving waters.
   (C)   This notification shall be followed, within 15 days of the date of
occurrence, by a detailed written statement from the user describing the causes
of the discharge and the measures being taken to prevent its future occurrence.
   (D)   Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any
consequential expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
for any fines or penalties imposed on the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Sanitation District No. 1 which result from the violative discharge.
   (E)   Users shall make available to their employees copies of this chapter
together with such other wastewater information and notices which may be
furnished by the General Manager from time to time directed toward more
effective water pollution control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently
posted by the user in a conspicuous place advising employees whom to call in
case of any discharge in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.100 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO MAKE SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AS TO DISCHARGES.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties and any person
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Commission and the Sanitation District for treatment, subject to payment
therefor.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.101 AUTHORITY TO REJECT WASTES, REQUIRE PRETREATMENT, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the wastewater treatment system, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in §§
50.092 through
50.098 and which in the judgment of the Water and Sewer Commission or the
Sanitation District No. 1 may have a deleterious effect on the aforesaid system
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the aforementioned may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the wastewater treatment system;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating, and
disposing of the wastes not covered by the wastewater treatment system service
charge.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the Water and
Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 shall require pretreatment
according to the applicable EPA pretreatment standards whenever so ordered by
governmental authorities, either by the terms of an NPDES permit or by a
condition of financial grant, or for other reasons arising from the
Commission's or the Sanitation District No. 1's legal obligations and duties.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.102 DISCHARGES IN VIOLATION DECLARED NUISANCE; REMEDIES.
   (A)   When the Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1
finds that a discharge of wastewater, in violation of this chapter, or the
provisions of a wastewater discharge permit issued under the provisions of §§
50.150 and
50.151, has taken place or threatens to take place, the Commission or the
Sanitation District No. 1 may issue an order to cease and desist, and direct
that those persons not complying therewith shall:
      (1)   Comply forthwith;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a time schedule set forth by the Water
and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
threatened violation.
   (B)   When the Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1
finds that a discharge of wastewater, in violation of this chapter, or
wastewater source control requirements, effluent limitations, or pretreatment
standards or the provisions of a wastewater discharge permit, has been taking
place, the Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 may require the user to
submit for approval, with such modifications as is deemed necessary, a detailed
time schedule of specific actions which the user shall take in order either to
prevent the discharge or correct the violation of requirements resulting
therefrom.
   (C)   Discharges of wastewater in violation of this chapter in any manner or
in violation of any order issued by the General Manager or the General Manager
of District No. 1, as authorized by this chapter, is hereby declared a public
nuisance. Such nuisance shall be corrected or abated as ordered by the General
Manager or the General Manager of District No. 1.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.103 INFILTRATION OF SURFACE RUNOFF AND GROUNDWATER.
   (A)   The program set out in this section for the elimination of inflow and
infiltration into the sanitary sewer system shall be administered by the city
through its Public Services Department.
   (B)   After identification of a violation of this chapter, consisting of a
source of inflow or infiltration into the sanitary sewer system such as, but
not limited to, illegal connections of roof down spouts, exterior and interior
foundation drains, areaway drains, etc., the city shall give written notice to
the owner of the property where such source is located or to the occupant
thereof by first class mail or hand delivery. It shall be sufficient if the
notice is addressed to and mailed or delivered to the person or persons in
whose name application was made for water service for that location.
   (C)   The person or persons so noticed shall, within 60 days of the date of
mailing or delivery of such notice, deliver to the offices of the Florence
Public Services Department, 8100 Ewing Boulevard, Florence, Kentucky 41042, a
plan, prepared by a licensed plumber, to correct the violation and eliminate
the source of inflow or infiltration. The plan shall include a detailed
description of the work to be performed, a drawing showing the illegal
connection and the method of its elimination, and a cost estimate for the work.
   (D)   The staff of the Florence Public Services Department shall review each
plan and approve or deny same within ten days after receipt. Notice of this
action shall be promptly communicated to the person submitting the plan.
   (E)   After receipt of the approval of the plan, the person submitting same
shall have 60 days in which to complete the work outlined in the plan and
notify Florence Public Services Department of such completion. Upon receipt of
notice of completion, the Department staff shall inspect and retest the system.
   (F)   If the work is timely completed, conforms to the approved plan, and
corrects the violation, the Florence Public Services Department shall pay to
the person who submitted the plan $1,000 of the documented costs or one-half of
those costs, not to exceed $2,000.
   (G)   In cases of extreme financial hardship, property owners may apply to
the city for assistance in paying their share of the costs of correcting the
violation. The city shall review such applications and consider the owner's
financial resources, income and ability to pay the owner's share of the costs.
If the city determines that a case of financial hardship exists, the Commission
may advance the owner's share of the cost of correction. In such cases, the
owner shall repay the amount so advanced in equal installments over the
succeeding five-year period. Such installments shall be placed on the water
bill as a separate charge. The city shall have a lien on the property for any
costs so advanced and any installments unpaid when due, shall bear interest at
the same rate charged for unpaid city taxes. If such installments are unpaid
for a period of 30 days, the city may declare the remaining balance so advanced
due and payable and may enforce its lien to collect same.
   (H)   Any person failing to respond to the notice of violation mailed or
delivered pursuant to division (B) hereof, within the prescribed 60-day period,
or failing to correct the violation, shall be subject to proceedings before the
Code Enforcement Board, such violations being designated civil offenses for
which the Code Enforcement Board may issue remedial orders and impose civil
fines as set out in §
33.81, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   (I)   The Director of the Florence Public Services Department may, for good
cause shown, grant an extension of any of the deadlines set out in this
section, provided that request for the extension is received prior to the
expiration of the deadline. The extension shall be issued in writing and shall
specify the date of its termination.
(Ord. O-21-00, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. O-23-05, passed 9-27-05)
PRETREATMENT AND CONTROL FACILITIES
§ 50.120 SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION AS TO PRETREATMENT OR CONTROL FACILITIES.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities, required by the Sanitation District No. 1
of Campbell and Kenton Counties, shall be submitted for the approval of the
Water and Sewer Commission, who will then forward the information to the
Sanitation District. Failure to make a timely submittal shall be grounds for
revocation or refusal to issue or renew a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.121 APPROVAL OF FACILITIES NOT A RELEASE FROM LIABILITY.
   Approval of existing or proposed pretreatment or control facilities or
equipment by the Water and Sewer Commission does not, in any way, guarantee
that these facilities or equipment will function in the manner described by
their constructor or manu- facturer; nor shall it relieve any person of the
responsibility of enlarging or otherwise modifying such facilities to
accomplish the intended purpose of pretreatment or control.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.122 MAINTENANCE.
   Where such pretreatment or control facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Water and Sewer
Commission and the Sanitation District No. 1. The owner shall maintain
operating records as required by the Commission and by the Sanitation District
No. 1, as required by the General Managers of both, reports of the character of
the influent and effluent to show the performance of the pretreatment or
control facilities.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.123 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interception devices or traps shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the General Manager, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing oil or grease in excessive amounts, sand,
or other harmful ingredients, except that such interception devices or traps
will not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interception devices or traps shall be of the type and capacity approved by the
General Manager and shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, gastight, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interception
devices or traps shall be maintained by the owner at his expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
FILLS
§ 50.135 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All persons owning or having possession, charge, or management of any lot or
parcel of real estate in which there exist public or private wastewater
treatment works and on which a fill or partial fill is to be made, shall before
making such fill apply to the General Manager for a permit authorizing the same
to be made. His application shall state the location of the tract and the
nature and dimensions of the fill proposed. If the General Manager is satisfied
that the public and private wastewater treatment works which is under his
management will not be damaged, obstructed, or interfered with, he may issue a
permit authorizing the fill.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.136 REPLACEMENT COSTS OF EXISTING OR MODIFIED WATERWORKS TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   In the event it becomes necessary to adjust, relocate, or otherwise modify
any existing public or private wastewater treatment works as a result of
placing the fill, the applicant authorized to make the fill shall, at his
expense, make such adjustments, relocations, or modifications, as required by
the General Manager, before or during the filling operation. The General
Manager may require the applicant to post a bond in an amount covering the
replacement cost of the existing or modified wastewater treatment system and
guaranteeing that the aforementioned fill will not damage the wastewater
treatment system either as existing or modified. The bond shall be in force for
a period of one year after the fill is completed.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
HOLDING TANK WASTES
§ 50.150 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge holding tank wastes into any watercourse or
storm sewer.
   (B)   Holding tank wastes originating within the Water and Sewer Commission
service area shall not be discharged into the Commission 201 area wastewater
treatment system.
   (C)   Holding tank wastes originating outside the boundaries of the
Commission 201 area are prohibited from being discharged into the Commission's
wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.151 APPROVAL OF COMMISSION AS TO CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, into the wastewater treatment system of the Water and Sewer
Commission, wastes other than domestic sewage without the prior written
approval of the Water and Sewer Commission and the Sanitation District No. 1 of
Campbell and Kenton Counties.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 50.165 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   All major contributing industries must have prior approval from the
Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties. No statement
contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangements between the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties and any person
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the District and by the Water and Sewer Commission for transportation or
treatment subject to payment therefor. The pretreatment requirements for
incompatible pollutants by industrial users shall be determined by the Campbell
and Kenton Sanitation District No. 1.
   (B)   All major contributing industries proposing to directly or indirectly
connect to or discharge into the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the same.
All existing major contributing industries directly or indirectly connected to
or discharging into the wastewater treatment system must apply for a wastewater
discharge permit within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file
with the Commission, an application in the form prescribed by the General
Manager and the General Manager of District No. 1, and accompanied by the
applicable fees. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the General Manager
and the General Manager of District No. 1, the applicant shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and SIC number of applicant.
      (2)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged.
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including Biochemical
Oxygen Demand, Suspended Solids, pH, Phosphorus and others as required by the
General Manager and the General Manager of District No. 1.
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge.
      (5)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly, and seasonal variations, if any.
      (6)   Ground plan or plat sufficient to indicate locations of building
sewers, building drains, process waste sewers, monitoring facilities, and
pretreatment facilities with respect to buildings, property lines, street
sewers, and industrial process facilities.
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials and types of materials which are or could be
discharged.
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production when
required to determine compliance with pretreatment standards.
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work.
       (10)    Any other information as may be deemed by the General Manager
and the General Manager of District No. 1, to be necessary to evaluate the
permit application.
   (D)   The District will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished, the
General Manager and the General Manager of District No. 1, may issue a
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
   (E)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter. Permits shall contain any or all of the following:
      (1)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics.
      (2)   Limits on rate and time of discharge and requirements for flow
regulations and equalization.
      (3)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities.
      (4)   Pretreatment requirements.
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and methods of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests and reporting schedule.
      (6)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to wastewater
discharge as specified by the General Manager and the General Manager of
District No. 1, and affording the Commission access thereto.
      (8)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants are proposed or present in the user's wastewater
discharge.
      (9)   Additional requirements as determined by the General Manager and
the General Manager of District No. 1.
   (F)   Permits shall be issued for a specified period of time but in no event
shall a permit extend beyond three years of the date of issuance. Thirty days
prior to the expiration of the permit, the user shall apply to the Commission
for a renewal of the permit.
   (G)   The user shall be notified in writing of any proposed changes in his
permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. The notice shall
include a specified time schedule for compliance. This time schedule shall be
based on practical delivery and construction time requirements, and shall
become part of the permit.
   (H)   A wastewater discharge permit is issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned,
transferred, or sold to a new owner, or significantly changed operation.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.166 REQUIRED REPORTS FROM USER.
   (A)   The user shall factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge.
   (B)   The user shall report significant changes in operation or in
wastewater constituents and characteristics.
   (C)   The user shall allow reasonable access to his premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring.
   (D)   The user shall comply with each and every term and condition of the
permit.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.167 MONITORING SYSTEM MAY BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The General Manager or the General Manager of District No. 1, may
require any industrial user to construct, at the user's own expense, monitoring
facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building
sewer or internal drainage systems, and may also require sampling or metering
equipment to be provided, installed, and operated at the user's expense.
   (B)   The monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's premises and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (C)   The personnel of the Water and Sewer Commission shall have access to
the monitoring facilities at all times for inspection and sample collection. If
the facilities are locked, special arrangements shall be made to allow access.
The Commission personnel shall also have the right to set up monitoring devices
at the facilities. There shall be ample room in or near such monitoring
facilities to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis.
The monitoring facilities, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the user.
   (D)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with Commission
requirements and all applicable local agency construction standards and
specifications. Unless a time extension is otherwise granted by the General
Manager or the General Manager of District No. 1, construction shall be
completed within 90 days following the issuance of written notification by the
District.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.168 INSPECTIONS; SAMPLES.
   Persons or occupants of premises of any industrial user where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the employees of the Water and Sewer
Commission ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection and sampling or for the performance of any of
their duties. The Commission shall have the right to set up on the user's
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering
operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification personnel from the Commission will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibili- ties. While performing the work, the Commission personnel shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises, established by the user.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.169 APPROVAL OF CITY DOES NOT RELIEVE DISCHARGER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Approval of proposed facilities or equipment by the General Manager or
the General Manager of District No. 1, does not, in any way, guarantee that
these facilities or equipment will function in the manner described by their
constructor or manufacturer; nor shall it relieve a person of the
responsibility to enlarge or otherwise modify such facilities to accomplish the
intended purpose.
   (B)   Approval of proposed facilities or equipment by the General Manager or
the General Manager of District No. 1, does not, in any way, guarantee that
these facilities or equipment will function in the manner described by their
constructor or manufacturer; nor shall it relieve a person of the
responsibility to enlarge or otherwise modify such facilities to accomplish the
intended purpose.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.170 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the General Manager or the General
Manager of District No. 1, and any person whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Water and Sewer Commission
for transport or treatment; subject to payment therefor.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.185 BASIS OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The sewerage service charge for "normal" strength sewage is based on
the water discharged to the sewer system as measured by the public water supply
meter, or meters, or by any supplementary meter, meters, or other means as
hereinafter provided. The basic sewerage service charge shall be determined
upon the metered flow and at rates as provided by Resolution of the Board of
Directors of the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties,
Kentucky.
   (B)   When a sewer is available, it will be presumed that the sewage from
the premises is discharged either directly or indirectly into the sewer, and
the property shall be billed for sewerage service. This shall apply to all
premises in the District's incorporated area and its service area and the Water
and Sewer Commission's districts and service areas.
   (C)   Where new sanitary sewers are constructed, all premises shall be
connected to the new sewer in accordance with regulations herein set out, and
shall be subject to the sewerage service charge as soon as connections are made
to the new sewer. If the making of the connection is delayed, the property
shall be subject to the sewerage service charge 30 days after the sewer is in
operation or accepted by the governmental agency having jurisdiction over the
sewer. This shall apply to all premises in the Water and Sewer Commission's
incorporated area and its service area.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.186 EXEMPTIONS.
   Claims for exemption from the sewerage service charge because of
nonavailability of sewers may be made in writing to the General Manager and the
Sanitation District No. 1, giving Water Department account and meter numbers.
Exemptions from the charge will be effective only from and after such
application has been investigated and approved by the General Manager and the
General Manager of District No. 1.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.187 WELLS, PRIVATE SOURCES OF WATER TO BE REGISTERED.
   Wells, or sources of water supply other than municipal water supplies, shall
be registered in writing to the General Manager and to the Sanitation District
No. 1, giving names of individuals or firm, address, source and amount of water
supply other than that from the public water supplies, together with a sketch
to a scale showing plan of property, water distribution system, sewer layout,
and existing meters. All sources of water that enter the sewer system shall be
properly metered and subject to the sewerage service charge.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.188 REDUCTION OF CHARGES; SPECIAL METERS.
   (A)   Requests for reduction in the sewerage service charge (as determined
and described herein) will be allowed for water not entering the sewerage
system if measured with a special meter and approved in accordance with the
procedures described herein. All meters shall be installed in accordance with
the standards, rules, and regulations of the applicable public water system.
   (B)   All requests for installation of special meters and reductions in
sewerage service charges must be in writing to the General Manager and the
Sanitation District No. 1, giving name, address, account number, and
description of application which the special meter will be used.
   (C)   No refunds, credits, reductions, or allowances will be given covering
any period prior to the date the General Manager and the Sanitation District
No. 1 approves the request for installation of a special meter.
   (D)   An approved, permanently installed special meter (no hose connections
or portable meters) designed for measurement of water flows must be used to
measure all water which does not enter the sewerage system.
   (E)   It shall be the total responsibility of the user to verify to the
satisfaction of the Water and Sewer Commission that the water does not enter
the sewerage system. Only water measured with the approved special meter shall
qualify for a reduction in sewerage service charges.
   (F)   The special meter shall be purchased from the Water and Sewer
Commission or, in county cases, from the Boone County Water and Sewer District,
and installed at the total expense of the user. The Water and Sewer Commission
assumes no responsibility for installation, maintenance, or mechanical
condition of the meter. The user is responsible for insuring that the special
meter is properly maintained and serviced. No reductions will be approved if
the meter fails to operate properly. No estimated readings will be acceptable
as a basis for reduction in sewerage service charges. If a meter is suspected
of faulty registration, the General Manager may order a test or replacement of
the meter.
   (G)   All special meters installed must register in the same units (gallons
or cubic feet) as the water supply meter which serves the user.
   (H)   The Water and Sewer Commission reserves the right to enter a user's
premises to inspect the installation of all special meters and to verify all
readings. If completed forms do not correspond with actual readings, then all
reductions will be based on actual meter readings.
   (I)   The user assumes all responsibility for reporting all readings to the
Commission. The Commission assumes no responsibility for the readings until
received at the main office.
   (J)   All readings must be recorded on the official form provided by the
Commission and mailed to the Commission's main office. No readings will be
accepted over the phone or verbally. Forms will be automatically forwarded to
the user on a yearly basis.
   (K)   All special meter forms must be filled out according to instructions.
The form will be used to determine the amount of reduction to be applied to the
user's sewerage service charge. All reductions will be computed based upon the
Commission's and the Sanitation District No. 1's currently approved rate
schedules in effect at the time the water was used and not returned to the
sewerage system.
   (L)   All special meter forms must be received by the Commission before the
sewerage service charge is computed or processed for each billing period. No
reductions will be allowed to a user's sewerage service charge once the billing
has been computed or processed. The reduction will be carried forward to the
next billing period.
   (M)   All special meter readings and submittal of forms are to be kept on a
current basis. No reduction in a user's sewerage service charge will be allowed
for accounts that have been inactive for a period of 12 months or more since
the last form submittal.
   (N)   In cases where the requested reduction in the sewerage service charge
amounts to more than the user's charges for a particular billing period, a
residual credit will be carried to the next billing period. No cash refunds
will be allowed except when a user's account is listed as a final billing.
   (O)   The amount of reduction associated with a special meter cannot amount
to more than the total sewerage service charges associated with usage from a
municipal or water supply meter for the same period of time.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.189 CITY HAS AUTHORITY TO INSTALL ADDITIONAL METERS.
   The General Manager has the authority to permit or to require an additional
meter or meters to be installed at the applicant's expense, so as to measure
the quantity of water actually entering the wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.190 AUXILIARY METERS.
   (A)   Auxiliary meters for determining the sewerage service charge or
surcharge shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the property owner.
Following the installation of such meters and approval of the installation by
the Water and Sewer Commission, meters may not be removed without the prior
approval of the General Manager.
   (B)   Meters which will be approved are as follows:
      (1)   Meters purchased from any municipality, or the person, firm, or
corporation which furnished water to the user's premises; and meters similar to
and equal to those specified by the water supplier and tested by the water
supplier.
      (2)   Crest or turbine type meters of two-inch size and over, to be used
where it is established the particular meter is under a full head at all times;
provided such meters are tested and passed for large constant flows by an
independent testing laboratory or a water department and certified by the same.
      (3)   Meters used currently for tax purposes by the United States
Government will be accepted without tests.
      (4)   Existing private meters now in place, may be continued in use on
conditional basis. If such meters are suspected of faulty registration, they
are subject to a test, when so ordered by the General Manager.
   (C)   No meter shall be installed before approval of the installation is
granted by the General Manager.
   (D)   When an auxiliary meter is so located that it is not read by the water
meter reader, it shall be the responsibility of the user to make reports of
meter readings before each billing period.
   (E)   If the required meter reading reports for auxiliary meters are not
received at the Commission office before each billing period, the Commission
shall compute the user's sewerage service charge by using the consumption total
indicated on the municipal supply meter readings.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.191 METHOD OF INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   (A)   All meters shall be installed in accordance with the standards, rules,
and regulations of the applicable public water system.
   (B)   Where private meters are used on wells, or in an industrial,
commercial, or private water distribution system and such meters are set behind
the meters used to register the primary water supply to a lot, land, or
premises, the installation is subject to the inspection and approval of the
General Manager.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.192 BILLING, COLLECTION.
   (A)   The sewerage service charge and surcharge, if any, are billed and
collected by the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties.
   (B)   Payment of the sewerage service charge and surcharges must be made to
the Sanitation District No. 1 or one of its assigned collection agents.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a nonpayment notice in writing from the Sanitation
District, the municipality or the person, firm, or corporation which furnishes
water to the user's premises, shall immediately shut off and discontinue the
water service to the user's premises.
   (D)   Upon full payment of the account, plus a reasonable charge for turning
off and on the water service, the Chairman, or any member of the Water and
Sewer Commission, shall notify the municipality, person, firm, or corporation,
which furnishes water to the user, that the account is paid in full, including
such reasonable charge for turning off and on the water service, and that the
water service can again be provided to the user's premises.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.193 ELEVATED BILL DUE TO WATER LEAKAGE.
   (A)   No reduction in the sewerage service charge shall be made for leakage
on any lot, land, or premises, except where an adjustment is made by the public
water supply company.
   (B)   Any adjustment by the Water and Sewer Commission for the quantity of
water consumed shall be automatically made by the Sanitation District No. 1
upon proper notification. The adjustment shall be made in the same proportions
as the adjustment made in water charges.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.194 SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   Sewerage service charges are to be paid in accordance with the following
procedure:
   (A)   Payment of the sewerage service charge can be made by check. Customers
who pay by check assume all responsibility for insuring there are sufficient
funds to cover the check issued for payment of sewerage service charges.
   (B)   A service fee of $20 will be applied to the customer's account for
each check returned from the customer's bank for any reason. This fee will be
added to the outstanding sewerage service charge balance for which payment was
originally intended. The service fee is necessary to cover extra incurred
expenses by the Water and Sewer Commission for processing the returned check.
   (C)   A notice will be sent to the customer after the returned check is
received by the Water and Sewer Commission. This notice will inform the
customer of the $20 service fee and also inform the customer that if all
outstanding sewerage service charges (including the returned check fees) are
not paid within five working days from the postmarked date of the notice, all
water service charges or fees will be secured to the account.
   (D)   The service fee for returned checks is in addition to all other
charges and penalties as described in the Water and Sewer Commission's rules
and regulations.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84; Am. Ord. O-7-93, passed 4-27-93)
URCHARGE
§ 50.205 WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by a sewer connection and which
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquid, other
than "normal strength sewage," either directly or indirectly into the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the Sanitation District No.
1 shall be subject to a wastewater treatment system surcharge in addition to
the wastewater treatment system service charge.
   (B)   The surcharge is to be determined on the basis of any combination or
all of three constituents of the wastewater:
      (1)   Total Suspended Solids (as defined in § 50.001).
      (2)   B.O.D. (as defined in § 50.001).
      (3)   Kjeldahl Nitrogen (as defined in § 50.001).
   (C)   When the concentrations of any one, any combination, or all of these
three constituents exceed the values for "Normal Strength Sewage" as defined in
§ 50.001, the excess concentrations shall be subject to charges at a rate
calculated from the following formula:
R = A(SS-300) + B(BOD-240) = C(TKN-30)
1,000,000
Wherein
   R =   Surcharge rate in dollars per 100 cubic feet of wastewater flow.
   SS =   Suspended Solids (see § 50.001)
   BOD = Biochemical Oxygen Demand (see § 50.001)
   TKN =   Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (see § 50.001)
   300 =    Maximum Suspended Solids in normal strength sewage.
   240 =    Maximum BOD in normal strength sewage.
    30 =   Maximum Kjeldahl Nitrogen in normal strength sewage.
A, B, and C are numerical factors related to unit costs of providing primary
and secondary treatment for the indicated pollutants. The values shall be:
   A = (Values to be furnished
   B = upon request)
   C =
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.206 ONE SAMPLE PER LOCATION TAKEN ANNUALLY BY CITY.
   (A)   The Sanitation District No. 1 shall conduct one wastewater treatment
system (WTS) surcharge sample per location per calendar year, without cost to
the person, industry, or company. This sample shall be obtained any time during
the calendar year and shall serve as the basis for future WTS surcharges. If a
person, industry, or company requests, in writing, another WTS sample before
the normally scheduled yearly sample by the Sanitation District No. 1, the full
cost of the sample (including labor, equipment, and analytical costs), shall be
payable by the requesting party. After the sample is completed, the new
results, higher or lower than the previous sample, shall become the basis for
the WTS surcharge.
   (B)   If a person disagrees with the analysis on which the WTS surcharge is
based, he may request, in writing, an additional sampling and analysis which
shall be conducted in a manner acceptable to the General Manager of the
Sanitation District No. 1. The cost of such additional sampling and analysis
shall be borne in full be the requestor.
   (C)   In the event an analysis of the wastes is not furnished to the
Sanitation District No. 1 when requested, the WTS surcharge shall be based on a
chemical analysis of a similar process or other data acceptable to the
Sanitation District No. 1 and shall continue in effect until such time as an
analysis of the wastes is submitted by the company and confirmed by the
Sanitation District No. 1.
   (D)   If the findings, order, or decision of the General Manager of the
Sanitation District No. 1 made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter are
not acceptable to any industry, the industry shall have the right to appeal as
follows:
      (1)   Two professional engineers shall be chosen, one by the industry,
and the other by the Sanitation District No. 1, neither of whom shall be a
regular employee of either principal. Such persons shall act as referees. As
soon as the referees are chosen, the General Manager of the Sanitation District
No. 1 shall file with them a certified copy of the complaint and the decision
of the General Manager of the Sanitation District No. 1, and it shall be the
duty of the referees to investigate the complaint and to agree either to affirm
or reject the findings of the General Manager of the Sanitation District No. 1
and file a report with the Sanitation District No. 1 within a reasonable time,
setting down their decision. If the referees so chosen are unable to agree,
they shall choose a third professional engineer, and the decision or
recommendation of the majority shall be reported to the Sanitation District No.
1. The decision or ruling shall be final and shall be reported to the industry
and to the General Manager of the Sanitation District No. 1.
      (2)   The fees and expenses of the referee appointed by the industry
shall be paid by the industry and the fees and expenses of the referee
appointed by the Sanitation District No. 1 shall be paid by the Sanitation
District No. 1. The fees and expenses of the third referee shall be equally
divided between the industry and the Sanitation District No. 1.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.207 INDUSTRIAL WASTE QUESTIONNAIRE TO BE COMPLETED.
   Each such person shall complete and file with the General Manager of the
Sanitation District No. 1 an industrial waste questionnaire containing
pertinent information on the quantity of flow and a chemical analysis of the
wastes to be discharged before the discharge begins.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.208 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING OF WASTES.
   (A)   When required by the General Manager of the Sanitation District No. 1,
the owner of any property discharging such wastes shall install a suitable
chamber or chambers in the building sewer to permit observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastewater from his premises. The chamber shall be
constructed in accordance with the plans approved by the General Manager of the
Sanitation District No. 1, shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible to personnel of the
Sanitation District No. 1 at all times.
   (B)   The Sanitation District No. 1 or the Water and Sewer Commission shall
have the right to enter and set up, on company property, such devices as are
necessary to conduct a gauging and sampling operation and to begin such
operation without advance notice to the company. While performing the work, the
Sanitation District No. 1 or Commission personnel will observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (C)   Where a company or premise has security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry into the company or
premise is granted, the company or premise shall either make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards that upon showing proper
identification, personnel from the Sanitation District No. 1 or the Commission
will be permitted to enter, without delays, for the purpose of obtaining
samples of wastes being discharged at the various sampling points; or the
company or premise shall install suitable gauging and sampling manholes outside
the security limits which manholes will at all times be immediately accessible
to the Sanitation District No. 1 or Commission personnel.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.209 "STANDARD ANALYTICAL METHODS" TO BE USED FOR TESTS, ANALYSIS.
   Except as modified to meet conditions at the wastewater treatment plant,
measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of such wastewaters
shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Analytical Methods."
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.210 STRENGTH OF WASTEWATER DETERMINES SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The strength of the wastewaters shall be determined from samples taken
at the aforementioned chamber at such times and of such durations and in such
manner as the Sanitation District No. 1 may elect, or at any place mutually
agreed upon between the owner and the Sanitation District No. 1. The results of
routine sampling and analysis by the owner may also be used, in determining the
amount of the surcharge, after verification by the Sanitation District.
   (B)   The strength so found by analysis shall be used in determining the
amount of the surcharge. The surcharge shall be applied to the total water
consumption, less that portion exempted by the Sanitation District No. 1 and
shall be based on the average strength of all wastes discharged to the
wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.211 DISCHARGE OF UNCONTAMINATED WASTEWATER.
   Where certain types of business and industrial users discharge clear water,
not contaminated as the usual wastewater entering the wastewater treatment
system, and if such users shall install and have in operation equipment to
prevent the water from entering the wastewater treatment system, they shall be
exempt from payment of WTS surcharges for the water so eliminated. The owner
shall install a meter or meters at his expense to measure the amount of water
so disposed of, or diverted.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.212 DISCHARGE UNMEASURABLE BY METER.
   If the General Manager of the Sanitation District No. 1 or the General
Manager of the Water and Sewer Commission finds that it is not practical to
measure the quantity of wastewater by meters, he shall determine the quantity
of wastewater entering the wastewater treatment system in any manner or by any
method he may find reasonable and practical. The quantity so determined shall
be the quantity of wastewater to which the WTS surcharge shall be applied.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.225 WATER RATES.
   (A)   All customers and users of water supplied by the Municipal Waterworks
System shall be charged at the rates contained in the following table for each
100 cubic feet of metered water consumption plus a customer charge of $2 per
month for monthly billings and $4 per quarter for quarterly billings.
 
Table of Rates
Fiscal year                    Rate per 100 Cubic Feet
April 1, 2020 - March 31, 2021 $4.87
April 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022 $4.96
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 $5.06
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024 $5.16
April 1, 2024 - March 31, 2025 $5.26
 
   (B)   All water haulers using the waterworks system of the city shall be
issued tokens and be charged the rate of $3.50 per 1,000 gallons of water
purchased for water hauling activities.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-ll-84; Am. Ord. O-48-87, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. O-
48-91, passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. O-33-94, passed 11-15- 94; Am. Ord. O-19-95,
passed 10-24-95; Am. Ord. O-23-95, passed 12-12-95; Am. Ord. O-05-03, passed 2-
25-03; Am. Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-07, passed 3-6-07; Am.
Ord. O-5-09, passed 4-14-09; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
§ 50.226 INTERIM SANITARY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Duration of interim rates. The interim sanitary sewer rate established
by this section shall remain in force and effect until replaced by the
permanent sanitary sewer rates as hereafter set out.
   (B)   Rates for all users.
      (1)   All users of the city system shall be charged the following capital
charge rates, based upon customer class and water meter size, to provide for
payment of the debt service requirements of the bonds issued to pay a portion
of the costs of constructing the project:
Customer Class Water Meter Size Monthly Capital Charge Per User
Customer Class           Water Meter Size Monthly Capital Charge Per User
Residential              5/8-inch         $ 4.46
Multi-family residential *see below       4.46 per unit
Nonresidential           5/8-inch         4.46
                         3/4-inch         6.63
                         1-inch           11.15
                         1-1/2-inch       22.32
                         2-inch           35.64
                         3-inch           71.05
                         4-inch           111.33
                         8-inch           353.48
                         12-inch          624.83
*All multi-family residential users which contain more than one separate
dwelling unit shall be charged a monthly capital charge equal to such charge
for a 5/8-inch meter residential user for each separate dwelling unit
regardless of users' actual water meter size. Hotels, motels, and hospitals are
not multi-family residential users.
      (2)   Capital charge rates shall be billed monthly by the city.
   (C)   Rates for treatment by the city.
      (1)   In addition to the charges established in division (B) above, all
users of the city system for which the city provides sewage treatment services
shall be charged rates for such service computed for each quarter year of three
months based upon the quantity of water used or supplied as determined by water
meter readings as follows:
         (a)   For normal sewage.
 
Water Usage              Rate per 100 cu. ft.
0 - 800 cu. ft.          $1.14
801 - 5,000 cu. ft.      1.07
5,001 - 25,000 cu. ft.   .96
25,001 - 100,000 cu. ft. 0.82
All over 100,000 cu. ft. 0.75
Quarterly minimum bill   9.12
 
         (b)   For normal sewage unmetered service. In the event that a lot,
parcel of land, building, or premises discharging sewage into the city system,
uses water supplied on other than a metered basis from either a private or
public water supply, then in each such case the owner or occupant may be
required to cause a water meter or other measuring device to be installed,
acceptable to the city, and the quantity of water used, as measured by the
meter, shall determine the sewer rate, provided, however, that pending
installation of the meter, rates shall be as follows:
 
1- or 2-room house          $11.00 per quarter
3-, 4-, 5- and 6-room house 18.00 per quarter
More than 6 rooms           24.00 per quarter
 
         (c)   Surcharge for strength beyond normal sewage. For the purpose of
providing funds to properly treat and dispose of sewage loads in excess of
normal sewage and to provide funds for the increased cost of maintenance and
operation occasioned thereby, there is established a schedule of rates for the
treatment and disposal of other than normal sewage which shall be charged to
and paid by the owner or occupant of each and every lot, parcel of land,
building, or premises discharging sewage, water, or other liquid wastes,
directly or indirectly into the city system. The schedule of surcharges for
other than normal sewage services shall be computed and based, insofar as
practicable, upon the quantity of water used or supplied as determined by water
meter readings, and upon the presence within the water on an average daily
basis of Suspended Solids, B.0.D. and Kjeldahl Nitrogen, in volumes as set
forth in the following table:
 
Type of Effluent                                  Rate 
Suspended Solids over 300 parts per million       $.079 per lb.
B.O.D. over 240 parts per million                 $.073 per lb.
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen over 30 parts per million $.064 per lb.
 
      (2)   The sewage treatment service charge shall be billed quarterly.
   (D)   Rates for treatment by the District. In addition to the charges
established in division (B) above, all users of the city system for which the
District provides sewage treatment services shall be charged by the District
rates for such services equal to the rates charged by the District to its other
users as such rates may be from time to time duly established by the District
and approved by such regulatory agencies as have jurisdiction thereof. Such
users of the city system shall be billed for said service directly by the
District at the same time and in the same manner as the District bills its
other users.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84; Am. Ord. O-7-86, passed 3-11-86)
§ 50.227 PERMANENT SANITARY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Time of effect. The permanent sanitary sewer rate established by this
section shall take effect on the first day of the calendar month next following
the date of completion of the project. The date of completion of the project is
defined as the first day on which all (or practically all) of the sanitary
sewage flows from the city system are transported to the District for
treatment. On the date these permanent rates take effect the interim rates
established in §
50.226 hereof shall terminate.
   (B)   Rates. All users of the city system shall be charged the following
rates by the city:
      (1) Customer charge. A customer charge of $2 per month for monthly
billings and $4 per quarter for quarterly billing for the costs of
administration and billing.
      (2)   Capital charges. A monthly capital charge as follows, based upon
customer class and water meter size, to provide for payment of the debt service
requirements of the bonds issued to pay a portion of the costs of constructing
the project:
Customer Class Water Meter Size Monthly Capital Charge Per User
Customer Class           Water Meter Size Monthly Capital Charge Per User
Residential              5/8-inch         $ 6.46
Multi-family residential *see below       6.46 per unit
Nonresidential           5/8-inch         6.46
                        3/4-inch         8.63
                        1-inch           13.15
                        1-1/2-inch       24.32
                        2-inch           40.64
                        3-inch           76.05
                        4-inch           116.33
                        8-inch           358.48
                        12-inch          629.83
 
*All multi-family residential users which contain more than one separate
dwelling unit shall be charged a monthly capital charge equal to such charge
for a 5/8-inch meter residential user for each separate dwelling unit
regardless of users' actual water meter size. Hotels, motels, and hospitals are
not multi-family residential users.
      (3)   Operation, maintenance, and replacement charge. A charge at the
rates contained in the following table per 100 cubic feet of water discharged
into the city system based upon metered water usage to provide for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement of the city system.
 
Table of Rates
Fiscal Year                    Rate per 100 Cubic Feet
April 1, 2020 - March 31, 2021 $0.74
April 1, 2021 - March 31, 2022 $0.76
April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023 $0.78
April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2024 $0.80
April 1, 2024 - March 31, 2025 $0.82
 
   (C)   Treatment charges of the District. In addition to the charges
established above in division (B) of this section, all users of the city system
for which the District provides sewage treatment services shall be charged by
the District rates for such services equal to the rates charged by the District
to its other users as such rates may be from time to time duly established by
the District and approved by such regulatory agencies as have jurisdiction
thereof. Such users of the city system shall be billed for the service directly
by the District at the same time and in the same manner as the District bills
its other users.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84; Am. Ord. O-25-86, passed 9-23-86; Am. Ord. O-
32-04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-07, passed 3-6-07; Am. Ord. O-5-09, passed
4-14-09; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
§ 50.228 WASTES NOT RETURNED TO SYSTEM.
   Sewage treatment rates herein established, whether charged by the District
or the city, are based on the underlying assumption that all metered water
consumption is eventually returned to the sewage treatment system. Where it can
be evidenced that the proportion of water actually returned to the treatment
system by an individual customer is significantly different from the metered
consumption, charges shall be determined as provided in §§
50.185 through
50.194 of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
§ 50.229 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Bills for water and sewer user charges shall be sent by the city
quarterly to all residential customers and business customers not billed
monthly, these charges to be collected and accounted for as prescribed by law
and in accordance with the proceedings authorized by any outstanding bonds of
the city. Monthly bills shall be due and payable 20 days after date of issue
and quarterly bills shall be due and payable 30 days after date of issue.
Monthly bills unpaid 20 days after issue shall incur a late payment charge
equal to 10% of the bill. Quarterly bills unpaid 30 days after issue shall also
incur a late penalty charge of 10% of the bill.
   (B)   If any bill for water or sewer services by the city or the Sanitation
District No. 1 is not paid within 20 days of issue for monthly billings and 30
days after issue for quarterly billings, the city may serve the customer or
owner of the property written notice of the delinquency in payment and that the
customer or owner is entitled, upon written request, to a hearing regarding
termination of service. If the bill thereafter remains unpaid ten days for
monthly billings or 15 days for quarterly billings after mailing of notice, and
no hearing is requested, or a hearing is held and the delinquency established,
the city shall disconnect the water service to that property without further
notice.
   (C)   If water service is disconnected by the city due to delinquency in
payment of any water or sewer bill, reconnection of service shall not occur
until customer or owner pays in full the bill for water or sewer services plus
$40 as a disconnection/ reconnection charge when reconnection is made during
regular office hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except
holidays. If reconnection occurs at any other time, the customer or owner shall
pay a disconnection/reconnection charge of $60.
   (D)   No reduction in sewer charges, fees, or taxes shall be permitted in
the event that certain wastes discharged to the sewage treatment system contain
pollutants in less concentrations than specified maximum limitations.
   (E)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
   (F)   Sewer charges to any customer who is initially rendered services for
less than one month shall be prorated on the basis of the foregoing charges for
the fractional part of the month for which services were rendered.
(Ord. 0-38-84, passed 12-11-84; Am. Ord. O-29-99, passed 12-14-99; Am. Ord. O-
32-04, passed 12-21-04)
§ 50.230 RATE REVIEW.
   The city shall review not less often than every two years the sewage
contributions of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the city
system, and user charges. User charges shall be revised as necessary to
accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operations and maintenance
cost among users of the city system, and to provide coverage of at least l.25%
of the maximum debt service requirements falling due on all bonds outstanding
against the city system in any fiscal year.
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the city system.
   (C)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
§ 50.231 REVISION OF RATES TO MEET BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   The foregoing rates and charges shall be reviewed from time to time as may
be necessary in order that the city may comply with the covenants and
undertakings securing any bonds of the city which may be outstanding from time
to time and which by their terms are payable from the revenues of the municipal
waterworks system or the municipal sewer system of the city.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
§ 50.232 ALL USERS TO BE METERED; NO FREE SERVICE.
   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the waterworks and sewer systems
to be metered, and the schedule of rates herein prescribed shall be uniformly
charged to all customers of the systems, including all residential, commercial,
and industrial establishments in any manner directly or indirectly connected
with and served by the waterworks and sewer systems of the city. No one shall
receive or be entitled to free water or sewer service or to any such service
without paying the full rates herein specified, except as set out herein.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
§ 50.233 OWNERS, OCCUPANTS JOINTLY LIABLE.
   The rates and charges aforesaid shall be billed to the owners or occupants
of the premises, and if the occupant of any premises is not also the owner,
both the owner and the occupant shall be responsible for the payment of the
water or sewer bill, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien upon the
premises.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
§ 50.234 WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION TO ENFORCE.
   Where this chapter provides for any action to be taken or services to be
performed by the city, such action may be taken or service performed on behalf
of the city by the duly established Water and Sewer Commission of the city.
(Ord. O-38-84, passed 12-11-84)
FEES
§ 50.250 INSPECTION FEES.
   Under §
50.045(E), there is hereby imposed an inspection fee of $25 for a residential
or commercial building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer
permit which shall be paid to the Water and Sewer Commission at the time the
application is filed for such a permit under §
50.045(E).
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.251 TAP-IN CHARGES.
   For building sewer connections and permits in accordance with the rules and
regulations adopted in this chapter and the standards set forth herein, there
shall be sanitary sewer tap-in charges as follows:
5/8-inch meters   $1,400
3/4-inch meters   $2,000
1-inch meters     $3,000
1 1/2-inch meters $6,000
2-inch meters     $9,000
3-inch meters     $14,000
4-inch meters     $20,000
6-inch meters     $30,000
8-inch meters     $40,000
 
(Ord. 0-6-84, passed 2-28-84; Am. Ord. 0-9-84, passed 4-10-84; Am. Ord. O-32-
04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
§ 50.252 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT FEE.
   At the time any person files or applies for a private wastewater disposal
system permit pursuant to §
50.071(A) of this chapter, a permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to
the Water and Sewer Commission at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.253 SEWER IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Any person, business or other entity who is not a retail water or
sewer customer of the city but who or which is a user of the city's sanitary
sewer system for the purposes of transporting sanitary sewage flows for
treatment to facilities of Sanitation District No. 1 are subject to a one time
sewer impact fee based on water meter size serving that person, business or
other entity. These sewer impact fees are as follows:
5/8-inch meters   $1,400
3/4-inch meters   $2,000
1-inch meters     $2,500
1 1/2-inch meters $3,000
2-inch meters     $4,500
3-inch meters     $7,000
4-inch meters     $10,000
6-inch meters     $15,000
8-inch meters     $20,000
 
   (B)   Those persons, businesses or other entities that are not retail water
or sewer customers and are subject to a sewer impact fee but have private
cisterns instead of a metered water supply shall pay $1,400 as their one time
sewer impact fee.
(Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.265 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Public Services Department shall be responsible for the management,
operation, maintenance and control of the city water system, the city sanitary
sewer system and city storm water system. The Finance Department shall be
responsible for all fiscal matters relating to the city storm water system, the
city sanitary sewer system and the city water system. The City Clerk/HR
Department shall be responsible for all personnel management functions relating
to the city water system, the city sanitary sewer system and the city storm
water system.
(Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 50.266 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The General Manager, and other duly authorized employees of the Water
and Sewer Commission bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes of surveying,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing of all wastewater
treatment works under the management of the Water and Sewer Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The General Manager, and other duly authorized employees of the Water
and Sewer Commission bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties, through which a proper easement is
on record, for the purpose of surveying, inspection, maintenance, operations,
repair, and reconstruction of any portion of the wastewater treatment system
under the management of the Water and Sewer Commission subject to the terms of
the easement.
(Ord. 0-38-83, passed 12-20-83; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03)
COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 50.280 NOTICE OF OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   Present and prospective users of the sewerage works of the Water and Sewer
Commission are herewith advised, notified, and warned of other existing
regulations, codes, ordinances and laws governing the requirements of their
compliance.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.281 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   Users and plumbers employed by the user are required to comply with the
State Plumbing Law and Code, Rules and Regulations issued by the Division of
Plumbing, Department for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.282 STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
   (A)   Every person and public corporation desiring to install or enter into
a contract for the installation of a public, semi-public, or industrial
sewerage system, or to make additions or alterations in any such treatment or
pretreatment plant or to alter or extend any such sewer shall comply with all
design and construction standards and Specifications of the Sanitation District
No. 1 and the Water and Sewer Commission, all rules and regulations of the
County Board of Health in which the facility exists or is to be constructed and
comply with all codes, rules, and regulations of the Kentucky Department for
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection.
   (B)   No such installations, additions, or alterations shall be started
until the plans and specifications therefor have been submitted to and approved
by the Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 or their
authorized representatives.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
Penalty, see § 50.999
VIOLATIONS
§ 50.300 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any illegal connection into the system made either before or after the
effective date of this chapter shall be subject to immediate removal by the
owner of the premises so connected and at that owner's expense.
   (B)   Should the owner of an illegally connected premises fail to remove the
illegal connection within 90 days of being notified by the General Manager of
the Water and Sewer Commission to do so, the General Manager may cause the
connection to be removed and the cost thereof to be billed to the owner of the
premises.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.301 VIOLATION OF pH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of pH requirements set forth in §
50.098(F) is subject to a penalty of $100 for each 1.0 pH unit over or under
permissible pH range of 6.0 to 9.0 and each violation shall be considered a
separate offense; provided, however, that to constitute a violation, the
illegal flow shall be continuous for the following time periods:
30 minutes for pH 5.9 to 5.0 or 9.0 to ll.0
15 minutes for pH 4.9 to 4.0 or ll.l to 12.0
5 minutes for pH 3.9 to 2.5 or 12.l to 13.0
1 minute for pH less than 2.5 or greater than 13.0
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1, under
their rules and regulations, may assess the penalties for such violation for
which the penalty is imposed.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.302 DISCHARGE CAUSING DAMAGE.
   When a discharge of waste by any user causes an obstruction of, or damage,
or any other impairment to a wastewater treatment system, a charge shall be
levied by the Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 of
Campbell and Kenton Counties against that user for the cost of the work
required to clear or repair the wastewater treatment system affected by the
discharge. The Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 shall add such
charges to the user's usual sewer service charges, surcharges, and fees.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.303 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The General Manager and other employees of the Water and Sewer Commission
shall have the authority to serve notices of violations of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-83, passed 12-20-83)
§ 50.304 FAILURE TO REMEDY DEFECTS.
   If a developer fails to begin repairs within ten days after institution of
the procedure of §
50.029(A) of this chapter, the Water and Sewer Commission may forthwith cause
the defects for which the procedure was initiated to be remedied and charge the
cost and expense thereof to the developer.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.305 REVOCATION OF PERMIT, DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation District No. 1 of
Campbell and Kenton Counties may revoke any wastewater discharge permit, or
terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater treatment system service to any
premises if a violation of any provision of the rules and regulations adopted
in this chapter is found to exist or if a discharge of wastewater causes or
threatens to cause a condition of contamination, pollution, or nuisance as
defined in this chapter. This provision is in addition to other statutes,
rules, or regulations authorizing termination of service for delinquency in
payment of either the Water and Sewer Commission, Sanitation District No. 1, or
other government agency having jurisdiction. Revocation of a permit shall be
accomplished by the procedures of division (C) below. Revocation of a permit is
sufficient grounds for termination of service.
   (B)   Any user who violates any of the rules and regulations adopted in this
chapter, or applicable state or federal regulations, or any conditions which
are made part of every permit under §
50.165 is subject to having its permit revoked, whether the conditions in §
50.165 and its various divisions, of those rules and regulations are set forth
in the permit or not.
   (C)   Before a permit is revoked for failure to conform or for violating any
of the rules and regulations establishing standards in this chapter, the user
shall be sent written notice of 15 days in advance of the date of the hearing
by the General Manager or the General Manager of District No. 1. The user shall
have the opportunity to present evidence at that hearing. The General Manager
or the General Manager of the District No. 1 will notify the user in writing of
their decision by no later than 15 days after the hearing.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.306 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any person or other entity or user is found to be violating any
provision of this chapter, the Water and Sewer Commission or the Sanitation
District No. 1 may:
      (1)   Seek enforcement and require conformity to the rules and
regulations of this chapter by mandamus or otherwise;
      (2)   Remove any improper construction, including connection, or close
any connections made improperly or in violation of the rules and regulations or
provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Revoke any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter;
      (4)   Recover by civil or criminal action, or any other appropriate
action, from any person, other entity or user, violating any rule, regulation,
or standard or provision of this chapter a sum not less than $100 nor more than
$5,000 for each offense, violation, or nonconformity, together with costs.
   (B)   Installation of any facility, or part thereof, by any person, other
entity, or user contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be abated by injunction or other proper action upon proper
application by anyone aggrieved, including the Water and Sewer Commission,
Sanitation District No. 1, the Commissioner, the State Board of Health, or the
County Board of Health, or other government agency, state or federal, having
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any person, other entity, or user found to be operating in violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall be compelled by injunction or other
proper action to cease and desist upon proper application by anyone aggrieved,
including the Water and Sewer Commission, the Sanitation District No. 1, the
Commissioner, the State Board of Health, or the County Board of Health, or
other government agencies, state or federal, having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Any person, other entity, or user willfully failing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable for damages caused by such failure
and for the cost of renewing any construction damaged or destroyed, or punitive
damages as may be found proper or appropriate.
(Ord. O-6-84, passed 2-28-84)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any permit
condition, or who violates any cease and desist order, prohibition, effluent
limitation, or pretreatment or toxicity standard, shall be liable civilly to a
penalty not to exceed $1,000 for individuals and $5,000 for corporations. Each
day in which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation. The
Water and Sewer Commission or the General Manager of the Sanitation District
No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties may assess a penalty of up to $1,000 for
each such violation and add the penalty to the user's charges and fees. Such
assessment shall be offset against any subsequent penalty otherwise imposed for
the same violation. Any such penalty imposed shall not be construed as
liquidated damages, and shall accrue in addition to any liability for any
consequential damages resulting from a violation for which the penalty is
imposed.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.002 shall be subject to immediate prosecution.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
50.150 and
50.151 shall be subject to a penalty of $100 per violation.
In addition, such persons shall be liable for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by reason of the violation.
   (D)   All violations of §
50.103 or the rules and regulations adopted herein are hereby designated as
civil offenses and enforced by imposing civil fines as set out in §
33.81 and the Code Enforcement Board shall be and is hereby granted the power
to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce §
50.103 and its rules and regulations.
(Ord. 0-6-84, passed 2-28-84; Am. Ord. O-23-05, passed 9-27-05)
CHAPTER 51: STORM WATER DETENTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Scope of regulations
   
51.02   Amount of water to be detained
   
51.03   Storm drainage design calculations
   
Appendix A: Overland flow chart
   
Appendix B: Intensity-duration curves
§ 51.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter effect the following developments:
   (A)   Business.
   (B)   Residential multi-family (including all attached housing).
   (C)   Industrial.
   (D)   Commercial (including office development).
   (E)   Public facilities.
(Ord. O-28-84, passed 10-9-84)
§ 51.02 AMOUNT OF WATER TO BE DETAINED.
   (A)   In order to minimize runoff damage to downstream properties, sediment
pollution of public and private waters, and hydraulic overloading of existing
drainage facilities, the storm water runoff from a site after development shall
not exceed the discharge from that site generated by single-family development
(at a density of 3.5 units per acre). The amount of water to be retained shall
be determined by the method described in the following divisions:
      (1)   Pre-development (equivalent to a single family at 3.5 units per
acre). Calculate the site runoff based on a 25-year storm frequency and
existing ground conditions using a coefficient of runoff based on C = 0.50.
      (2)   Post-development runoff. Calculate the proposed ultimate
development runoff based on a 50-year frequency curve. Use a weighted
coefficient of runoff based on the proposed development with C = 0.95 for
impervious areas and C = 0.40 for unpaved and grass areas.
      (3)   Storage requirement. Provide on-site retention of storm water equal
to the post-development runoff rate minus the single family runoff rate for a
period of 30 minutes.
      (4)   Discharge from retention basin.
The discharge from the retention basin shall be equal to the computed single
family runoff minus any flow discharging directly from the development site.
   (B)   Retention basins: standards and specifications. These standards apply
to permanent and temporary storm water runoff, sediment, and debris basins
formed by an embankment or excavation. These standards are limited to the
installation of basins on sites where:
      (1)   Failure of the structure will not result in loss of life, damage to
homes, or interruption of use or service of public utilities.
      (2)   The drainage area does not exceed 200 acres.
      (3)   The water surface at the crest of the emergency spillway does not
exceed five acres.
   (C)   General notes.
      (1)   All computations are to be prepared by an engineer licensed in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and submitted to the Public Works Department for
review.
      (2)   All detention areas and methods are to be approved by the Public
Works Department.
      (3)   All detention ponds are to be fenced.
(Ord. O-28-84, passed 10-9-84)
§ 51.03 STORM DRAINAGE DESIGN CALCULATIONS.
   Estimated runoff by the rational method: Q = C.I.A. where:
   (A)   "Q" = Peak rate of runoff, in cfs.
   (B)   "C" = Weighted runoff coefficient, expressing the ratio of rate of
runoff to rate of rainfall.
   (C)   "i" = Average intensity of rainfall in inches per hour (for the
selected frequency and for duration equal to the time of concentration).
   (D)   "A" = Drainage area, in acres, tributary to the point under design.
   (E)   "Tc" = Time of Concentration (the time in minutes for a particle of
water to travel from the most remote point in the drainage area to the
structure).
(Ord. O-28-84, passed 10-9-84)
APPENDIX A: OVERLAND FLOW CHART
Section
   
1.   Overland flow chart
§ 1. OVERLAND FLOW CHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b4be239f5b12ee49dca84975e751de428d9af07f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5560.gif]
(Ord. O-28-84, passed 10-9-84)
APPENDIX B: INTENSITY-DURATION CURVES
Section
   
1.    Graph of intensity-duration curves
§ 1. GRAPH OF INTENSITY-DURATION CURVES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b4be239f5b12ee49dca84975e751de428d9af07f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5563.gif]
(Ord. O-28-84, passed 10-9-84)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01 Garbage collection franchise exclusive
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 GARBAGE COLLECTION FRANCHISE EXCLUSIVE.
   So long as there exists an exclusive franchise for the collection of
garbage, trash, and refuse in the city which has been granted by the city
pursuant to Ordinance 0-2-89 or any subsequent ordinance renewing said
franchise or granting another, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation other than the person, firm, or corporation to which such franchise
has been granted, to enter in and upon the streets and other public ways of the
city for the purpose of collecting and hauling away from businesses, homes,
dwellings, and other places where necessary, any garbage, trash, and refuse in
violation of the exclusive franchise.
(Ord. 0-40-83, passed 12-20-83; Am. Ord. 0-2-89, passed 2-14-89; Am. Ord. O-11-
03, passed 6-10-03)
Penalty, see §52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating the provisions of
§
52.01 shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for
not more than one year, for each offense. Each separate act of collection shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 0-40-83, passed 12-20-83; Am. Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 53: WATER RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Adoption of water rules and regulations by reference
   
53.02   Adoption of miscellaneous penalties, fines, charges, and the like by
reference
   
53.03   Water service deposits
   
53.04   Water leak adjustments to billings
   
53.05   Payment plan arrangements
   
53.06   Returned check fee
Essential Conservation of Water Resources
   
53.15   Purpose
   
53.16   Definitions
   
53.17   Treated water; use classifications
   
53.18   Declaration of a water shortage advisory
   
53.19   Declaration of a water shortage alert
   
53.20   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
53.21   Declaration of water shortage critical emergency
   
53.22   Executive orders
   
53.23   Notice of violations; authority of city to issue
   
53.24   Methods of enforcement
   
53.25   Criminal and other penalties; termination of service
   
53.26   Authority of city to observe, monitor water use
   
53.27   Authority of city to impose special water shortage rates
Cross-reference:
   Water rates, see §
50.225
   Water and Sewer Commission, see §§
50.265 through 50.270
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 ADOPTION OF WATER RULES AND REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The water rules and regulations proposed and recommended by the City
Water and Sewer Commission are hereby adopted and approved. A copy of these
water rules and regulations is attached to Ord. O-23-86 as Exhibit "A", dated
July 21, 1986, and entitled "Water Rules and Regulations" and is hereby
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The adoption of these Rules and Regulations for the use, operation,
extension and improvement, and other related matters of the public water works
system of the city is determined by the City Council to be in the public
health, safety and welfare and promotes the public interests of the citizens of
the city.
(Ord. 0-23-86, passed 9-9-86; Am. Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-
19, passed 1-29-19; Am. Ord. O-8-2023, passed 5-2-23)
§ 53.02 ADOPTION OF MISCELLANEOUS PENALTIES, FINES, CHARGES, AND THE LIKE BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   Exhibit "A", attached to Ord. 9-22-86 and incorporated by reference as
if fully set forth herein, provides the penalties, fines, charges, fees,
damages, forfeitures and other sanctions in connection with the rules and
regulations previously adopted in §
53.01 for use of the water works system in the city.
   (B)   Said Exhibit "A" was prepared by the Florence, Kentucky Water and
Sewer Commission, dated July 21, 1986 and is entitled "Miscellaneous Penalties,
Fines, Charges and Fees Relating to Rules and Regulations Regarding the Use and
Operation of the Water Works System of Florence, Kentucky."
(Ord. 0-22-86, passed 9-9-86; Am. Ord. 0-2-91, passed 2-12-91; Am. Ord. O-32-
04, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
§ 53.03 WATER SERVICE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Retail water customers of the city shall pay a deposit fee that will
be refunded with interest after 12 months of water service, provided the
customer's account has maintained a current payment status for the entire 12
months. Fifty percent of the deposit is payable when service is requested and
the balance is to be billed and paid as part of the first billing period. The
full deposit for residential owners is $75 and for residential renters the full
deposit is $100. The full deposit for business customers/owners is $200.
   (B)   Landlords/owners of multiple residential unit buildings with
individual meters for each unit may satisfy this deposit requirement by
establishing and maintaining an escrow account from which the city may draw for
delinquent billings for either water or sewer services, this escrow account
being in the amount of $100 per unit, each building limited up to four units.
For buildings containing more than four units, the escrow account must maintain
an amount of $1,000 per building, up to a maximum $10,000.
(Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04)
§ 53.04 WATER LEAK ADJUSTMENTS TO BILLINGS.
   (A)   There shall be no reduction or adjustment in water or sanitary sewer
charges/billings due to water leaks within a residential unit that is
detectable by ordinary means or methods. However, if water leak is underground
between the residential unit and the city's supply water main and the leak is
not reasonably detectable, the customers/owners billing is eligible for
adjustment consideration by 50% of excess water consumption over the customer's
average usage at the difference between the city's water and sewer costs and
it's retail rate.
   (B)   Before any adjustment can be granted, the customer/owner must complete
a form and submit it with proof the leak has been repaired to the Finance
Director for consideration of whether the adjustment request should be
approved. Water customers/owners are eligible for only one rate adjustment due
to a water leak in a 12 month period.
(Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04)
§ 53.05 PAYMENT PLAN ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   Retail water customers may be eligible for a payment plan arrangement
under which the customer pays 50% of the amount billed whether the billing is
monthly or quarterly, and this payment must occur no later than the
disconnection date set forth in §
50.229.
   (B)   The balance of the amount billed must be paid within 14 days for
monthly and quarterly billings.
   (C)   Any deviation from such a payment plan for either monthly or quarterly
billings must have the approval of the Finance Director.
   (D)   Customers that have had a water leak are eligible for payment plan
arrangements whether or not they have received an adjustment pursuant to §
53.04. Customers having a leak and wanting to participate in a payment plan
arrangement must pay 1/3 of the balance determined owing monthly over the next
three months from the date that such payment plan arrangement is approved. The
Finance Director has authority to determine whether payment plan arrangements
as requested should be approved and no payment plan arrangement is effective or
binding upon the city without the Finance Director's approval.
(Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04)
§ 53.06 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   All customers of the city for water and sanitary sewer services are subject
to a returned check fee or charge in the amount of $25 and that amount upon
return of a customer's check or draft hall be added to and part of any billing
for that customer for which the returned check or draft represented payment.
(Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04)
ESSENTIAL CONSERVATION OF WATER RESOURCES
§ 53.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city when a shortage
is declared. Nothing in this subchapter is intended nor shall be construed to
interfere with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CUSTOMER." Any person, business, corporation, partnership or other entity
using water for any purpose from the city's water distribution system for which
either a regular charge is made or, in the case of water haulers or bulk sales,
a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   "OTHER SOURCES OF WATER." Water that has not been introduced by the city
into its water distribution system.
   "PRIMARY WATER SUPPLIES." All water potentially available to customers in
the city through its principal supplier, Kenton County Water District.
   "TREATED WATER." Water that has been introduced by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale, which is that water
supplied by the city's principal supplier, Kenton County Water District.
   "WASTE OF WATER." Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other service
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   "WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PHASES." Those discernible conditions or situations
bringing about and authorizing upon their occurrence or existence certain
measures for conservation of water resources as set forth in this subchapter.
These phases are as follows:
      (1)   "ADVISORY." That phase where conditions exist indicating the
potential for serious water supply shortages.
      (2)   "ALERT." That phase where primary water supplies are consistently
below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline, may adversely affect
the adequacy of treated the water supply to meet normal needs.
      (3)   "EMERGENCY." That phase where treated water supplies are below the
level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist in the
area that adversely impact water service and supply to the city.
      (4)   "CRITICAL EMERGENCY." That phase where treated water supplies have
been so depleted with no reasonable expectation of replenishing such water
supplies within the near future that preservation of water for essential water
use through rationing of treated water is necessary and essential for the
public health, safety and welfare. Essential water uses are, those uses of
water identified as Class 1 in §
53.17.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.17 TREATED WATER; USE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Uses of treated water are classified for purposes of this subchapter as
follows:
   (A)   Essential Water Uses (Class 1). The following uses of water, listed by
site or user type, are essential:
      (1)   Domestic. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
      (2)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation, including
related filling and operation of swimming pools.
      (3)   Public use.
         (a)   Firefighting.
         (b)   Health and public protection purposes, if specifically approved
by City Council or the Mayor by proper local government action of the city.
   (B)   Socially or Economically Important Uses of Water (Class 2). The
following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are socially or
economically important:
      (1)   Domestic. Personal, in house water use including kitchen, bathroom
and laundry.
      (2)   Commercial and civic uses.
         (a)   Commercial car and truck washes.
         (b)   Laundromats.
         (c)   Restaurants, clubs and eating places.
         (d)   Schools, churches, motel/ hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
      (3)   Outdoor non-commercial waterings.
         (a)   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens.
         (b)   Minimal watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial or public watering (using conservation methods
and when other sources of water are not available or feasible to use).
         (a)   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber or
the maintenance of livestock.
         (b)   Watering by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
regional or community significance where necessary to preserve specimens.
         (c)   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary to
maintain stock.
         (d)   Watering at a minimum rate necessary to establish or maintain
vegetation or landscape plantings required pursuant to law or regulation.
         (e)   Watering of woody plants where necessary to preserve them.
         (f)   Minimum watering of golf course greens.
      (5)   Recreational. Operation of municipal swimming pools and residential
pools that serve more than 25 dwelling units.
      (6)   Air conditioning.
         (a)   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season.
         (b)   Makeup for water during the cooling season.
         (c)   Refilling specifically approved by City Council through the City
Water and Sewer Commission, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair services.
   (C)   Non-Essential (Class 3). Any waste of water, as defined herein, as
non-essential. The following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are
non-essential.
      (1)   Public use.
         (a)   Use of fire hydrants (excluding Class I and Class II uses),
including use of sprinkler caps, testing fire apparatus and fire department
drills.
         (b)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as needed to ensure
public health and safety as approved by City Council through the City Water and
Sewer Commission.
      (2)   Commercial and civic use.
         (a)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places, except by
customer request.
         (b)   Failure to repair a controllable leak.
         (c)   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and
lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife.
      (3)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools and artificial
waterfalls.
      (4)   Outdoor watering.
         (a)   Use of water for dirt control or compaction.
         (b)   Watering of annual or non-woody plants, lawns, parks, golf
course fairways, playing fields and other recreational areas.
         (c)   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas.
         (d)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection.
         (e)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street.
      (5)   Outdoor commercial or public watering.
         (a)   Expanding nursery facilities, placing new irrigated agricultural
land in production, or planting of landscaping except when required by a site
design review process.
         (b)   Use of water for dirt control or compaction.
         (c)   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing fields
and other recreational areas.
         (d)   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas.
         (e)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection.
         (f)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street.
      (6)   Recreational uses other than those specified as Class II.
      (7)   Non-commercial washing of motor and other vehicles.
      (8)   Air conditioning (see also Class II purposes). Refilling cooling
towers after draining.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.18 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the City Council of the city determines that a potential shortage
of primary water supplies is indicated by current conditions, it shall be
empowered to declare by proper local government action that a water shortage
advisory exists and that the General Manager of the City Water and Sewer
Commission or other designated official or employee of the city shall, on a
daily basis, monitor the primary water supply and the treated water supply as
well as the demands upon the primary and treated water supply. Additionally,
City Council or the Mayor is authorized to urge all water customers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures to limit non-essential (Class 3) water
use and eliminate the waste of water. This local legislative action shall be
published in the official city newspaper for legal publications and may be
publicized or published through other means of general news media, including
other newspapers, radio or television, or any other appropriate method for
making such actions known to the public.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.19 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the City Council of the city determines primary water supplies to
be consistently below seasonal averages and that if they continue to decline
may not be adequate to provide treated water to meet normal needs to the city,
it shall be empowered to declare by proper local government action that a water
shortage alert exists. The city, through its Council or Mayor, shall continue
to encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under the advisory
declaration, and further shall impose a total ban or regulate hours of water
use on all non-essential (Class 3) water uses for the duration of the shortage
until the City Council or Mayor has declared it to have ended, or upon the
expiration of any time limit that may have been set forth in the declaration by
the city. Publication or public notice as such declarations shall conform to
the procedures as set forth in §
53.18 and shall be effective upon publication in the official newspaper for
city publications under state law.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.20 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Council of the city finds that primary water supplies are
below the level necessary to provide the quality and quantity of treated water
to meet normal needs and that serious shortages of treated water exists to
serve the city, City Council shall be empowered to declare by proper local
government action that a water shortage emergency exists. Essential uses (Class
1) shall be identified, in specific, as uses for voluntary conservation
initiatives. Also, all socially or economically important uses (Class 2) shall
be totally banned or hours of water use regulated in addition to the non-
essential uses (Class 3). These restrictions shall be considered continuing
until the emergency phase is declared ended by proper local government action
by the City Council or Mayor. Publication of these declarations shall follow
the procedures set forth in §
53.18, but declarations of a water shortage emergency shall be immediately
effective as an emergency measure upon passage of the local government action.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.21 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE CRITICAL EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council of the city finds that treated water
supplies have been so depleted with no reasonable expectation for replenishing
such treated water supplies that preservation of water for essential water use
(Class 1) is essential and necessary for the public health, safety and welfare
through the measure of rationing of treated water supplies, the City Council
shall be empowered to declare by proper local government action that a water
shortage critical emergency exists. Essential uses (Class 1) shall be
specifically identified as uses for which rationing is required and shall
specifically identify any other uses for which voluntary conservation
initiatives are still in effect. All other uses contained within the essential
uses classification, all socially or economically important uses (Class 2) and
all non-essential uses (Class 3) shall be totally banned or hours of water use
regulated. These restrictions shall be considered continuing until the critical
emergency is declared ended by the city. Publication or notice of the local
government action declaring a water shortage critical emergency shall follow
the procedures set forth in §
53.18, but any such declaration shall become immediately effective upon passage
of such declaration by the City Council.
   (B)   In the event the City Council of the city determines that a water
shortage critical emergency exists, thereby imposing rationing of treated water
supply, the City Council shall be and is hereby authorized and empowered to
adopt or enact as an emergency ordinance rationing levels for all customers of
water in the city through its distribution of water system. In any such
emergency ordinance in determining rationing levels, the city shall take into
account equitable distribution of critically limited water supplies and balance
demand with the limited availability of treated water and take all steps
necessary to reasonably assure that sufficient water is available to preserve
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.22 EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
   Prior to action by City Council in declaring any of the water shortage
response phases set forth herein, the Mayor is empowered to issue an executive
order declaring that a particular water shortage response phase and the
regulatory measure imposed as a result of such phase being declared. As part of
that executive order, the Mayor shall set forth the basis or justification for
making such declaration on an emergency basis. The executive order declaring
any water shortage response phase shall continue into effect until suspended or
lifted by issuance of a subsequent executive order and in any event shall be
subject to approval of the City Council of the city at its next regular or
special meeting.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; AUTHORITY OF CITY TO ISSUE.
   Upon declaration of any water shortage phase, law enforcement officers of
the city, as well as employees of the City Water and Sewer Commission, shall be
and are hereby empowered and authorized to observe, monitor and issue notices
of violation concerning any water use that does not conform to any ban or hours
of regulation for the particular water shortage phase as declared by the city.
(Ord. O-17-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.24 METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   An emergency ordinance imposing rationing as a measure of conserving
water as authorized in this subchapter may include methods of enforcement for
compliance. These methods of compliance, in addition to imposition of fines as
penalties, may include the excess use charges to be imposed on any water
customer exceeding the allotment set forth in the emergency ordinance for water
rationing. Any monies collected through this excess use charge procedure shall
be placed in a reserve or capital account for public improvements relating to
water supply projects.
   (B)   In addition to excess use charges, noncompliance with water rationing
may result ln discontinuation of service for excess use of water by a customer.
Discontinuation of service may result from second or subsequent excess use
occurrences of a customer during a declared critical emergency water shortage
phase for which rationing has been imposed for a period of time not to exceed
48 hours. Another measure that may be taken in lieu of discontinuation of
service is installation of a flow restrictor, the cost of such installation to
be paid by the customer. Prior to discontinuance or interruption of service
during a declared critical emergency water shortage phase for which rationing
has been imposed, a customer shall be given prior written notice and afforded
the opportunity to address the City Water and Sewer Commission in the nature of
an appeal.
Upon discontinuance or interruption of service, costs of resuming water service
must be paid by the customer prior to resuming such service.
(Ord. O-18-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.25 CRIMINAL AND OTHER PENALTIES; TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Any customer found to be in violation of any water shortage response
phase and the accompanying restrictions on use of water shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $250 for each violation and each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to this criminal penalty, any customer violating any of
the water use restrictions imposed pursuant to declaration of the water
shortage response phases provided in this subchapter, is subject to other
enforcement measures as outlined in §
53.24 above. A written notice of the violation shall be affixed or posted on
the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer of record
or to any other person known to be responsible for the violation or its
correction. This notice shall be sent by the City Water and Sewer Commission or
other proper designated entity and shall describe the violation with direction
that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within a certain specified
time. If the order is not complied with by the customer, termination of water
service to the customer may occur, subject to the following procedures:
      (1)   Notice shall be given to the customer by mail that due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within certain time and that the
customer has the opportunity to appeal that termination by requesting a hearing
before the City Water and Sewer Commission. If such a hearing is requested, the
customer shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before termination is
ordered. The City Water and Sewer Commission shall make findings from facts
presented to it during any such hearing prior to ordering termination of
service and as an alternative to such termination, may take other measures that
are reasonable under the circumstances to conserve water and yet still provide
access of reasonable service to the customer.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, if a
customer, during a declared alert, emergency or critical emergency water
shortage, refuses to cease using treated water for any use that is banned for
that particular water shortage phase, termination of water service to that
customer for up to 48 hours without a prior hearing may occur at the option or
the city through its Water and Sewer Commission. The purpose of terminating
water service for such time period is not to punish, but to provide an
emergency means of conserving water for more essential or necessary uses
pursuant to the classifications herein and to allow the city's supplier of
treated water to restore its supply capacity.
(Ord. O-18-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.26 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO OBSERVE, MONITOR WATER USES.
   For purposes of enforcement of the provisions herein, law enforcement
officers of the city as well as employees of the City Water and Sewer
Commission shall be and are hereby empowered and authorized to observe, monitor
and give notices regarding any violations by any customer of the water shortage
conservation measures set forth in this subchapter and any of the enforcement
measures being initiated or imposed under this subchapter.
(Ord. O-18-88, passed 7-26-88)
§ 53.27 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO IMPOSE SPECIAL WATER SHORTAGE RATES.
   (A)   Upon declaration of a water shortage phase as provided in this
subchapter, the City Council of the city shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates, by ordinance, designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   These rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage;
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use;
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level; or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. O-18-88, passed 7-26-88)
CHAPTER 54: STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Establishment of system
   
54.02   Purposes of system
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   (Reserved)
   
54.05   Authority over design, maintenance and inspection
   
54.06   Rules and regulations
   
54.07   Plan review
   
54.08   Funding
   
54.09   Capital improvements
   
54.10   Drainage response system
   
54.11   Storm drainage service charge
   
54.12   Credit adjustment procedure
   
54.13   Application of revenues
   
54.14   Delinquent accounts
   
54.15   No liability
Urban Storm Water Quality Management
and Discharge Control
   
54.30   Title
   
54.31   Purpose and intent
   
54.32   Definitions
   
54.33   Applicability
   
54.34   Responsibility for administration
   
54.35   Regulatory consistency
   
54.36   Ultimate responsibility of discharge
   
54.37   Prohibition of illegal discharge
   
54.38   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
54.39   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
54.40   Discharges in violation of industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit
   
54.41   Requirements to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants
   
54.42   Requirement to eliminate illegal discharges
   
54.43   Requirement to eliminate secure approval for illicit connections
   
54.44   Watercourse connection
   
54.45   Requirement to remediate
   
54.46   Requirement to monitor and analyze
   
54.47   Notification of spills
   
54.48   Authority to inspect, sample, establish sampling devices and test
   
54.49   Enforcement
   
54.50   Abatement by city
   
54.51   Emergency abatement
   
54.52   Amnesty
   
54.53   Enforcement through Code Enforcement Board - civil fine and lien
   
54.54   Injunctive relief
   
54.55   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
54.56   Continued application of Federal Clean Water Act
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM.
   Pursuant to its authority under the provisions of K.R.S. 82.082, the city
does hereby establish a Storm and Surface Water Drainage System to be acquired,
constructed, improved, operated, maintained and funded as hereinafter set out.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92)
§ 54.02 PURPOSES OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The purposes of the establishment of the system are to provide for
possession, control and use of all storm and surface water drainage facilities
in the city; to be responsible for maintenance of all storm water facilities,
to improve, manage, operate and repair storm water facilities, to provide for
effective management and financing of the system within the city, to provide
methods for mitigating the damaging effects of uncontrolled and unplanned storm
water runoff, to improve the public health, safety and welfare by providing for
the safe and efficient capture and conveyance of storm water runoff and the
correction of storm water problems, to authorize the establishment and
implementation of a master plan(s) for storm drainage including design,
coordination, construction, management, operation, maintenance, inspection and
enforcement, to establish a reasonable Storm Water Service Charge based on each
property's contribution of storm water runoff to the system and to encourage
and facilitate urban water resources management techniques including detention
of storm water runoff, minimization of the need to construct storm sewers, and
the enhancement of the environment.
   (B)   In order to accomplish such purposes, a Storm Water Service Charge
shall be made on all real property within the city. The primary consideration
in getting the Service Charge shall be each property's contribution to runoff.
   (C)   The Storm Water Service Charge shall be fair and reasonable and bear a
substantial relationship to the costs connected with the System. Rate studies
shall be conducted periodically.
   (D)   Service Charges for residential properties of two or fewer dwelling
units shall reflect the relatively uniform effect that residential development
has on runoff. Large residential lots, parcels or tracts generally have a lower
overall intensity of development than small residential lots because a lesser
percentage of larger lots, parcels or tracts is covered with hard surfaced
area. The effect of large residential properties on runoff is lowered by less
imperviousness.
   (E)   Multi-family residential properties having three or more dwelling
units and properties in land uses other than residential shall pay according to
the amount of runoff as computed by multiplying the number of ESU's times a
charge per ESU.
   (F)   An Appeal and Service Charge adjustment process shall be created to
review Storm Water Service Charges when unusual circumstances exist which alter
runoff characteristics or when either service or benefit varies from normal
conditions or when computation of ESU is disputed.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AVERAGE RESIDENTIAL IMPERVIOUS AREA." The average square footage of
impervious area on one and two family residential properties in the city as
determined by sampling the one and two family residential properties.
   "CITY." The City of Florence, Kentucky.
   "CLASS A PROPERTIES." One and two family residential properties.
   "CLASS B PROPERTIES." All other properties, including, but not limited to,
apartment buildings having units for three or more families and institutional,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, and governmental properties.
   "DEVELOPED." The condition of real property altered from its natural state
by the addition to or construction on the property of impervious ground cover
or other man-made physical improvements such that the hydrology of the property
or a portion thereof is affected.
   "DEVELOPER." A person, form, partnership, corporation or other entity that
excavates, builds or otherwise improves a specific parcel or tract of land.
   "DRAINAGE SERVICE CHARGE." The fee levied upon all developed real property
within the boundaries of the city.
   "EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU)." The billing unit used in the formula for
generating charges for properties. The "ESU" for all one and two family
residential properties shall be one. The "ESU" for each Class B property is
calculated by dividing the impervious area of a property by the average
residential impervious area, and rounding to two decimal points.
   "EXISTING." Present or in effect as of the time of the adoption of this
ordinance.
   "FACILITIES." Various flood control, drainage works and storm water systems
that include but are not limited to inlets, conduits, manholes, energy
dissipation structures, channels, outlets, retention basins, detention basins,
other structural components, ditches, floodwalls, basins, pipes, walls,
channels, creeks, ponds, drainage easements, drainage rights-of-way, drainage
dedications, and other interests in property used, dedicated, controlled,
possessed, maintained or leased by the City, for drainage purposes, together
with all appurtenances which connect or assist in drainage of water or flood
control.
   "IMPERVIOUS SURFACE." Those hard surface areas either which prevent or
retard the entry of water into the soil in the manner that the water entered
the soil under natural conditions pre-existent to development, or which cause
water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of
flow than that present under natural conditions pre-existent to development,
including, without limitation, the surfaces as roof tops, asphalt or concrete
paving, driveways, and parking lots, walkways, patio areas, storage areas, or
other surfaces which similarly affect the natural infiltration or runoff
patterns existing prior to development.
   "PREMISES." A lot or parcel, and the building and other improvements
situated thereon.
   "STORM." and "STORM WATER." and "SURFACE WATER." They are used as
interchangeable terms.
   "STORM WATER SYSTEMS." or "STORM WATER DRAINAGE." All man-made facilities,
structures, and natural water courses used for collecting and conducting storm
water to, through and from drainage areas to the points of final outlet
including, but not limited to, any and all of the following: inlets, conduits,
appurtenant features, canals, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams,
gullies, flumes, culverts, siphons, retention or detention basins, dams,
floodwalls, levies, and pumping stations.
   "STORM SEWER." or "STORM DRAIN." A sewer which carries storm waters, surface
runoff, and drainage, but which excludes sanitary sewage and industrial waste
other than unpolluted cooling water.
   "SYSTEM."   The "STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM," created herein,
which consists of the entire system of flood protection and storm water
drainage and surface water runoff facilities owned or leased by the city or
over which the city has right of use for the movement and control of storm
drainage and surface water runoff, including both naturally occurring and man-
made facilities.
   "UNDEVELOPED."   That condition of real property unaltered by the
construction or addition to the property by man of impervious ground cover or
physical man-made improvements of any kind which change the hydrology of the
property from its natural state.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92)
§ 54.04 [RESERVED]
§ 54.05 AUTHORITY OVER DESIGN, MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Public Services Department on behalf of the city shall monitor the
design, operation, maintenance, inspection, construction and use of all storm
sewers, storm drains and storm water facilities in the city and shall have
exclusive jurisdiction for the design and construction of public storm water
facilities in the city and shall inspect, operate and maintain the facilities.
   (B)   The Public Services Department shall have exclusive jurisdiction for
the inspection, maintenance, repair, removal, construction and operation of
drainage facilities on all city streets, boulevards, alleys, viaducts,
sidewalks, curbs, street crossing, grade separation and other public ways and
easements, and all drains, ditches, culverts, canals, streams, levees, tunnels
and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In order to accomplish the purpose of this ordinance, and to protect
the System, to secure the best results from the construction, operation, and
maintenance thereof, and to prevent damage and misuse of any of the drainage
facilities, improvements or properties within the city, the Public Services
Department may prepare necessary and reasonable rules and regulations which may
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   To prescribe the manner in which storm sewers, ditches, channels,
and other storm water facilities are to be designed, installed, and adjusted,
used, altered or otherwise changed.
      (2)   To prescribe inspection and other fees permitted by this ordinance.
      (3)   To prescribe the manner in which the facilities are operated.
      (4)   To facilitate the enforcement of this ordinance.
      (5)   To prescribe the collection procedures and timing of Service Charge
bills.
      (6)   To protect the drainage facilities, improvements and properties
controlled by the city and to prescribe the manner of their use by any public
or private person, firm or corporation.
      (7)   To protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The Public Services Department shall submit the rules and regulations
to the City for approval. Upon approval the city shall adopt the rules and
regulations by ordinance.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.07 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Public Services Department shall be responsible for all storm and
surface water drainage plan reviews for all development in the city. Any person
or organization removing, constructing, enlarging, altering, repairing,
relocating, or demolishing a storm sewer, natural water course, or other
drainage facility, must first file an application and obtain a permit from the
city.
   (B)   Permits are required and may be granted by the Public Services
Department for the following improvement categories:
      (1)   Connection into the System.
      (2)   Improvements which are or will become Public Facilities.
      (3)Improvements within dedicated but unimproved street rights-of-way.
      (4)   Improvements which require detention or retention facilities.
   (C)   Plans for all improvements made within the city that require storm
water facilities or changes or alterations to existing storm water facilities
or which use the System must be submitted prior to construction or alteration
to the city for review and approval.
   (D)   Every improvement shall be provided with a storm water system capable
of handling storm waters flowing unto the improvement site from other areas, as
well as storm water from the site itself. The Drainage System shall be designed
to discharge into a water course, drainage channel or other storm water
facility.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.08 FUNDING.
   Funding for the system and other storm water activities connected therewith
shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Funds appropriated by the city;
   (B)   Storm drainage service charge;
   (C)   Permit and inspection fees;
   (D)   Direct Charges. This charge will be collected from owners and
developers for the cost of designing and constructing Storm Water Facilities
and administrative costs and related expenses where the city designs and
constructs or contracts for the construction of the facilities.
   (E)   Other income obtained from federal, state, local and private grants or
revolving funds.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.09 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Public Services Department will implement a capital improvements
program. The Public Services Department shall submit the capital improvement
program which lists the capital improvements to the city for approval. Upon
approval of the capital improvements program, the Public Services Department
shall have authority to proceed with, awarding of contracts, acquisition of
property and construction of said projects and no other approval will be
required.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.10 DRAINAGE RESPONSE SYSTEM.
   The Public Services Department will operate and maintain a complaint
response system in order to assure effective and timely response to all surface
and storm water drainage complaints and shall regularly and timely issue report
to the city as to the number and type of drainage complaints received and to
the response made to the complaints.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.11 STORM DRAINAGE SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Pursuant to K.R.S. 91A.510 the Storm Drainage Service Charges (the
"Service Charges"), imposed herein are designated as user fees. The following
Service Charges are hereby established and imposed for all parcels of real
property within the city, excluding exempted property. These charges are
calculated according to the methods, formulae and data contained in the "City
of Florence Storm Water Utility Implementation Plan" (the "Implementation
Plan") prepared by GRW Engineers, Inc., dated August 28, 1990, which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Class A Properties or Single Family Residential. The single family
residential charge rate shall be $3.50 per month for each parcel having one or
two residential dwelling unit(s). This flat rate fee is based on each single
family residential parcel being equal to one equivalent service unit (ESU).
   (C)   Class B or Other Parcels. The charge for all other parcels within the
drainage service area shall be based upon the number of square feet of measured
impervious surface, as determined in the “Implementation Plan”. The charge for
Class B properties shall be computed by multiplying the number of ESUs for a
given parcel by the unit rate of $3.50 per month. Any owner of Class B property
may request a drainage charge credit adjustment for approved on-site storm
water retention or detention facilities as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   To the extent the credit is approved, it will be applied by reducing
the number of billable ESUs by the percent of reduction in storm water runoff
due to the on-site facilities. The net billable ESUs after the credit is
applied shall be expressed in whole ESUs by rounding to the next highest ESU,
and the adjusted drainage service charge shall not be less than 15% of the
drainage service charge before the credit adjustment.
   (E)   The city may establish fees for the review and approval of plans or
designs of drainage facilities, and for the inspection of the construction of
drainage facilities, and may establish policies for the sharing of the costs of
developing regional drainage systems serving multiple development/properties.
   (F)   Billing and Collection. Drainage service charges shall be billed and
made payable using the same frequencies and billing cycles used for water and
sanitary sewer billing. The amounts to be billed shall be included as additions
to the billings.
   (G)   The owners, tenants or persons responsible for the payment of water
and sanitary sewer charges shall also be responsible for the payment of Service
Charges for the same parcels except for multiple occupancy such as shopping
centers, apartments, condominiums, and the like, in which cases the Public
Services Department may either allocate the Service Charges among the occupants
of the parcel or may deem that a single billing to the parcel's owner(s),
agent, or association is appropriate. In either case, the billed party shall be
responsible for payment of Service Charges. For properties not billed for water
and sanitary sewer service, the owners of the properties shall be billed
service charges and shall be responsible for payment of same. In all
situations, the owners of properties subject to Service Charges shall be fully
responsible for payment of the charges regardless of any other parties
hereinabove identified as also being responsible for payment of drainage
service charges.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-10-01, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. O-09-
03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-03, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. O-4-07, passed 3-
6-07; Am. Ord. O-4-19, passed 1-29-19)
§ 54.12 CREDIT ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As used in this section, the following terms shall means:
      (1)   "DETENTION."   Facilities designed to hold runoff while gradually
releasing it at an allowable discharge.
      (2)   "RETENTION."   Facilities designed to hold water for a substantial
period of time and releasing it through evaporation, plant transpiration or
infiltration into the soil.
      (3)   "HYDROLOGIC RESPONSE."   The manner and means by which storm and
surface water collects on the property and is conveyed from that property, and
which is a function dependent upon a number of interacting factors, including,
but not limited to, topography, vegetation, geologic conditions, soil moisture
conditions and ground water conditions. The principal measures of the
hydrologic system may be stated in terms of total runoff volume, as a
percentage of total precipitation which runs off, or in terms of the peak rate
of flow generated by a storm of given duration, intensity or frequency.
   (B)   Some properties, due to their unique topography or geology, or due to
the construction and maintenance of storm water control or detention
facilities, may have a hydrologic response substantially similar to properties
with lesser amounts of impervious surface.
   (C)   Any Class B property owner who has installed an approved on-site
"retention" or "detention" facility may apply for an adjustment of equivalent
service units applied to that specific parcel. Provided that the resulting
adjustment will be commensurate with the facility's mitigating effects on
runoff and provided that no property's service charge adjustment results in a
rate which is less than the fee paid by single family residential property.
Applications shall be made on forms supplied by the city.
   (D)   The city may adjust the drainage utility charge for the properties
based on hydrologic data submitted by the property owner or his agent which
demonstrates a hydrologic response substantially similar to that of a property
with a lesser amount of impervious surface. This data will include as a
minimum:
      (1)   The site's approved drainage plan.
      (2)   Hydrologic analyses for the property.
      (3)   Facility design specifications.
      (4)   Maximum discharge rate physically possible.
      (5)   Current flows into the facility and the amount of impervious area
designed to be serviced by the facility.
      (6)   The amount of impervious surface on the property if different from
the city’s measurement.
   (E)   All adjustment will remain in effect as long as:
      (1)   The property owner has obtained the permits required by the city
and the facility has been constructed in compliance with all approved plans.
      (2)   The property owner remains responsible for all costs of operation
and maintenance of the facility.
      (3)   The city will have access to the facility for purposes of
inspection its compliance with design, maintenance and operating standards.
   (F)   Detention credit will be based upon the Criteria and Calculation
contained in Exhibit "A" which is attached hereto and incorporated herein.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.13 APPLICATION OF REVENUES.
   All monies collected through Service Charges and other fees authorized
herein, shall be deposited in a special revenue account and shall be separately
identified and accounted for in the city’s financial records. Collection and
disbursement of such monies shall be administered according to generally
accepted principles of governmental accounting. All such money shall be used
for costs and expenses, including administrative costs and salaries, related to
the Storm and Surface Water Drainage System established by this chapter.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
§ 54.14 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   When any Service Charges remain unpaid for a period of 30 days for monthly
billings and 45 days for quarterly billings after the same becomes due and
payable, the property, the tenant and the owner thereof, shall be deemed
delinquent until the time as all rates, fees, and charges are fully paid; and
the city may terminate public sewer, water and drainage service to that
property and pursue its legal remedies against the tenant or owner to obtain
payment.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. O-32-04, passed 12-21-04)
§ 54.15 NO LIABILITY.
   Floods and storm water runoff may occasionally occur which exceed the
capacity of the system. This chapter does not imply nor create a duty on the
City to insure that property subject to fees and charges established herein
will always be free from flooding or flood damage, or that storm water systems
capable of handling all storm events can be cost effectively constructed,
operated or maintained. Nor shall this chapter create a liability on the part
of, or cause of action against, the city, or any of their elected officials,
officers, or employees for any flood damage or any damage that may result from
storms or runoff thereof.
(Ord. 0-27-92, passed 9-22-92; Am. Ord. O-09-03, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. O-20-
03, passed 9-2-03)
URBAN STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
§ 54.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Urban Storm Water Quality Management
and Discharge Control Ordinance” of the City and may be so cited.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.31 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to ensure the health, safety,
and general welfare of citizens, and protect and enhance the water quality of
watercourses and water bodies in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the
Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) by reducing pollutants in
storm water discharges to the maximum extent practicable and by prohibiting
non-storm water discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4).
The objectives of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and Discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4); and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.” Activities, practices, and procedures to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to the
municipal storm drain system and waters of the United States. “BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES” include but are not limited to: treatment facilities to remove
pollutants from storm water; operating and maintenance procedures; facility
management practices to control runoff, spillage or leaks of non-storm water,
waste disposal, and drainage from materials storage; erosion and sediment
control practices; and the prohibition of specific activities, practices, and
procedures and such other provisions as the City determines appropriate for the
control of pollutants.
   “CITY.” The City of Florence.
   “CLEAN WATER ACT.” The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   “CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.” Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grabbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
   “HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.” Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   “ILLEGAL DISCHARGE.” Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted by §
54.37.
   “ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.” Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by a government agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   “INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.” Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   “NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMITS.” A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   “NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE.” Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   “POLLUTANT.” Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. “POLLUTANTS”
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure (including but not limited to sediments, slurries, and concrete
rinsates); and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   “POLLUTION.” The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects, or has the potential to
unreasonably affect, either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   “PREMISES.” Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   “STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.” Publicly-owned facilities operated by the city by
which storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures which are within the City and are not part of a publicly owned
treatment works as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   “STORM WATER.” Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from rain storm events.
   “STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.” A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   “WASTEWATER.” Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   “WATER COURSE.” Any relatively permanent, standing or flowing body of water
that collects, holds, detains, retains, serves as a conduit, or otherwise
controls flows of storm water that connects, drains, discharges, or otherwise
becomes part of the city’s storm sewer system.
   “WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.” Surface watercourses and water bodies as
defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2, including all natural waterways and definite
channels and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such
waterways may only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry storm
water at and during all times and seasons. This includes watercourses
designated as waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and waters of the City of
Florence.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.33 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter, including any amendments or revisions hereto, shall apply
to all water entering the City of Florence, Kentucky storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands lying within or without the
city.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.34 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Services Director of the City shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed
upon the Public Services Director may be delegated by the Public Services
Director to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of the city.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.35 REGULATORY CONSISTENCY.
   This subchapter shall be construed to assure consistency with the
requirements of the Clean Water Act and acts amendatory thereof or
supplementary thereto, or any applicable implementing regulations.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.36 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF DISCHARGE.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States, caused by said person. This subchapter shall not create liability on
the part of the city, or any agent or employee thereof for any damages that
result from any discharger’s reliance on this subchapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.37 PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards, other than storm water.
   (B)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      (1)   Discharges from the following activities will not be considered a
source of pollutants to the storm drain system and to waters of the United
States when properly managed to ensure that no potential pollutants are
present, and therefore they shall not be considered illegal discharges unless
determined to cause a violation of the provisions of the Clean Water Act, or
this subchapter: potable water line flushing; uncontaminated pumped groundwater
and other discharges from potable water sources; landscape irrigation and lawn
watering; diverted stream flows; rising groundwater; groundwater infiltration
to the storm drain system; uncontaminated foundation and footing drains;
uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps; air conditioning condensation;
uncontaminated non-industrial roof drains; springs; individual residential and
occasional noncommercial car washing; flows from riparian habitats and
wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; street wash waters; and flows
from fire fighting.
      (2)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the city’s Public Services Department prior to the time of
test.
      (3)   This prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under the authority
of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is
in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has
been granted by the city for any discharge to the storm drain system.
      (4)   The city may, consistent with the Clean Water Act, exempt in
writing other non-storm water discharges which are not a source of pollutants
to the storm drain system nor waters of the United States.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.38 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition, consistent with the Clean Water Act, expressly
includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless
of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time of connection.
   (C)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the municipal separate sewer system,
or allows such a connection to continue.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.39 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep, or permit to be
thrown, deposited, left, or maintained, in or upon any public or private
property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, component of the
storm drain system, or water of the United States, any refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and
accumulations, so that the same may cause or contribute to pollution. Wastes
deposited in streets in proper waste receptacles for the purposes of collection
are exempted from this prohibition.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.40 DISCHARGES IN VIOLATION OF INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY NPDES
STORM WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Public Services Director prior to or as a condition of a subdivision map, site
plan, building permit, or development or improvement plan; upon inspection of
the facility; during any enforcement proceeding or action; or for any other
reasonable cause.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.41 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   Authorization to adopt and impose best management practices. The city
may adopt or amend requirements identifying best management practices for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States as a separate BMP Manual. Where best management practices requirements
are promulgated by the City or any federal, Commonwealth of Kentucky, or
regional agency for any activity, operation, or facility which would otherwise
cause the discharge of pollutants to the storm drain system or water of the
United States, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or owning
or operating such facility shall comply with such requirements.
   (B)   New development and redevelopment. The city may adopt or amend
requirements identifying appropriate best management practices to control the
volume, rate, and potential pollutant load of storm water runoff from new
development and redevelopment projects as may be appropriate to minimize the
generation, transport and discharge of pollutants. The city shall incorporate
such requirements in any land use entitlement and construction or building-
related permit to be issued relative to such development or redevelopment. The
owner and developer shall comply with the terms, provisions, and conditions of
such land use entitlements and building permits as required in this subchapter
and the Boone County Subdivision or Zoning Regulations.
   (C)   Responsibility to implement best management practices. Notwithstanding
the presence or absence of requirements promulgated pursuant to divisions (A)
and (B) of this section, any person engaged in activities or operations, or
owning facilities or property which will or may result in pollutants entering
storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United States shall
implement best management practices to the extent they are technologically
achievable to prevent and reduce such pollutants. The owner or operator of a
commercial or industrial establishment shall provide reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes shall be provided and maintained at the
owners or operators expense.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.42 REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of §
54.48, the Public Services Director may require by written notice that a person
responsible for an illegal discharge immediately, or by a specified date,
discontinue the discharge and, if necessary, take measures to eliminate the
source of the discharge to prevent the occurrence of future illegal discharges.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.43 REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE SECURE APPROVAL FOR ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Services Director may require by written notice that a
person responsible for an illicit connection to the storm drain system comply
with the requirements of this subchapter and the best management practices
requirements authorized herein to eliminate or secure approval for the
connection by a specified date, regardless of whether or not the connection or
discharges to it had been established or approved prior to the effective date
of this subchapter.
   (B)   If, subsequent to eliminating a connection found to be in violation of
this subchapter or the best management practices requirements authorized
herein, the responsible person can demonstrate that an illegal discharge will
no longer occur, the person may request city approval to reconnect. The
rcconnection or reinstallation of the connection shall be at the responsible
person’s expense.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.44 WATERCOURSE CONNECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property reasonably free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other
obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of
water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. The owner or lessee shall not remove healthy bank
vegetation beyond that actually necessary for maintenance, nor remove said
vegetation in such a manner as to increase the vulnerability of the watercourse
to erosion. The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining and
stabilizing that portion of the watercourse that is within their property lines
in order to protect against erosion and degradation of the watercourse
originating or contributed from their property.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.45 REQUIREMENT TO REMEDIATE.
   Whenever the Public Services Director finds that a discharge of pollutants
is taking place or has occurred which will result in or has resulted in
pollution of storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the United
States, the Public Services Director may require by written notice to the owner
of the property and/or the responsible person that the pollution be remediated
and the affected property restored within a specified time pursuant to the
provisions of §§
54.49 through
54.52 of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.46 REQUIREMENT TO MONITOR AND ANALYZE.
   The Public Services Director may require by written notice of requirement
that any person engaged in any activity and/or owning or operating any facility
which may cause or contribute to storm water pollution, illegal discharges,
and/or non-storm water discharges to the storm drain system or waters of the
United States, to undertake at said persons expense such monitoring and
analyses and furnish such reports to the city as deemed necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.47 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as an owner or any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of
the United States from said facility, said person or persons shall take all
necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such
release. In the event of such a release of a hazardous material said person or
persons shall immediately notify emergency response officials of the occurrence
via emergency dispatch services (911). In the event of a release of non-
hazardous materials, said person shall notify the city’s Public Services
Department in person or by phone or facsimile no later than 5:00 p.m. of the
next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by
written notice addressed and mailed to the city’s Public Services Department
within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited
materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or
operator or other responsible person of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.48 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT, SAMPLE, ESTABLISH SAMPLING DEVICES AND TEST.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial facilities, uses or operations,
including construction activity related to such facilities, uses or operations.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The Public Services Director or his/her designee shall be permitted
to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this subchapter as
often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter. If a
discharger has security measures in force which require proper identification
and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the
necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Public Services Director or his/
her designee ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
reasonable inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must
be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and
the performance of any additional duties as defined by applicable state and
federal law.
      (3)   The Public Services Director or his/her designee shall have the
right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the Public Services Director to conduct monitoring and/or sampling
of the facility’s storm water discharge, consistent with the Clean Water Act.
      (4)   The Public Services Director or his/her designee has the right to
require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary to comply
with the Clean Water Act. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment
shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by
the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow
and quality shall be calibrated to ensure accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Public Services Director or his/
her designee and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall
be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Public Services Director or
his/her designee access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water
discharge permit and of this subchapter. A person who is the operator of a
facility with a NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the Public Services
Director or his/her designee reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
subchapter or the Clean Water Act.
      (7)   If the Public Services Director or his/her designee has been
refused access to any part of the premises from which storm water is
discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then
the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.49 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Public Services Director or his/her designee finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
subchapter, the Director may order compliance by written notice of violation to
the owner, lessee, or other responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist or a stop work order may issue pending correction, elimination of
discharges or their abatement;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work may be done by the city or a contractor designated by the Public Services
Director and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator pursuant to §
54.51.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.50 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, then the city or a contractor designated by
the Public Services Director may enter upon the subject private property and is
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the City or designated
contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.51 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   The Public Services Director is authorized to require immediate abatement of
any violation of this subchapter that constitutes an immediate threat to the
health, safety or well-being of the public. If any such violation is not abated
immediately as directed by the Public Services Director, the city is authorized
to enter onto private property and to take any and all measures required to
remediate the violation. Any expense related to such remediation undertaken by
the City of Florence shall be fully reimbursed by the property owner and/or
responsible party. Any relief obtained under this section shall not prevent
city from seeking other and further relief authorized under this subchapter or
applicable state or federal law.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.52 AMNESTY.
   (A)   Depending on the type of violation that has been discovered, the city
reserves the right to offer amnesty to any residential property owner as they
see fit. In the event that amnesty is offered, the city shall give written
notice to the owner of the property where such source is located or to the
occupant thereof by first class mail or hand delivery. It shall be sufficient
if the notice is addressed to and mailed or delivered to the person or persons
in whose name application was made for water service for that location.
   (B)   The person or persons so noticed shall, within 60 days of the date of
mailing or delivery of such notice, deliver to the offices of the Florence
Public Services Department, 8100 Ewing Boulevard, Florence, Kentucky, 41042, a
plan, prepared by a licensed plumber, to correct the violation and eliminate
the source of illicit activity. The plan shall include a detailed description
of the work to be performed, a drawing showing the illicit connection or
discharge and the method of its elimination, and a cost estimate for the work.
   (C)   The staff of the Florence Public Services Department shall review each
plan and approve or deny same within ten days after receipt. Notice of this
action shall be promptly communicated to the person submitting the plan.
   (D)   After receipt of the approval of the plan, the person submitting same
shall have 60 days in which to complete the work outlined in the plan and
notify Florence Public Services Department of such completion. Upon receipt of
notice of completion, the Department staff shall inspect the completed work.
   (E)   If the work is timely completed, conforms to the approved plan, and
corrects the violation, the City will reimburse the first $1,000 of the
documented cost of repair. After the first $ 1,000, the City will match one-
half of the total cost of repair up to a maximum of $2,000.
   (F)   In cases of extreme financial hardship, property owners may apply to
the City for assistance in paying their share of the costs of correcting the
violation. The City shall review such applications and consider the owner’s
financial resources, income and ability to pay the owner’s share of the costs.
If the City determines that a case of financial hardship exists, the City may-
advance the owner’s share of the cost of correction. In such cases, the owner
shall repay the amount so advanced in equal installments over the succeeding
five-year period. Such installments shall be placed on the water bill as a
separate charge. The City shall have a lien on the property for any costs so
advanced and any installments unpaid when due, shall bear interest at the same
rate charged for unpaid City taxes. If such installments are unpaid for a
period of 30 days, the City may declare the remaining balance so advanced due
and payable and may enforce its lien to collect same.
   (G)   Any person failing to respond to the notice of violation mailed or
delivered pursuant to division (B) of this section, within the prescribed 60-
day period, or failing to correct the violation, shall be subject to
proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board, such violations being designated
civil offenses for which the Code Enforcement Board may issue remedial orders
and impose civil fines as set out in Ordinance No. 0-07-02, which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   (H)   The Director of the Florence Public Services Department may, for good
cause shown, grant an extension of any of the deadlines set out in this
section, provided that request for the extension is received prior to the
expiration of the deadline. The extension shall be issued in writing and shall
specify the date of its termination.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.53 ENFORCEMENT THROUGH CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD - CIVIL FINE AND LIEN.
   The provisions of this subchapter may be enforced by the City of Florence
Code Enforcement Board following the procedures set forth in §§
33.70 et seq. All violations of this subchapter, for the purposes of such
enforcement, are designated to be civil offenses and jurisdiction of such
offenses is specifically assigned to the Florence Code Enforcement Board.
Proceedings against any person violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter may be initiated by the issuance of a citation to the Code
Enforcement Board and the Board may issue remedial orders, impose civil fines,
order the filing of liens and exercise authority with respect to such
violations as set out in §§
33.70 et seq. and pursuant to the “Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act”
(KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839).
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
§ 54.54 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter, If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent inj
unction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.55 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties hereinbefore
provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter that constitutes a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare, and may be declared and deemed a public nuisance, and may
be summarily abated or restored by the city at the violator’s expense, and/or a
civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance may be taken by the city in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.56 CONTINUED APPLICATION OF FEDERAL CLEAN WATER ACT.
   This subchapter does not prevent or preclude application of the Clean Water
Act to any violation of that Act and any such violation shall remain subject to
sanctions, including civil and criminal penalties or other enforcement measures
by the appropriate statement or federal government agencies and officials under
the Act.
(Ord. O-11-14, passed 8-12-14)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this chapter is
hereby designated a violation. Each day that a violation of this chapter
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person, form or
corporation who violates the terms of this chapter shall be fined an amount not
to exceed $250 for each offense.
(Ord. O-27-92, passed 9-22-92)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         Chapter
            
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
            
70A.    TRUCKS
            
71.   MOTORCYCLES; MINI-BIKES
            
72.   REPOSSESSION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
            
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
            
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Regulatory Provisions
   
70.01   Parking in certain locations prohibited
   
70.02   Manner of parking
   
70.03   Parking for certain length of time prohibited
   
70.04   Parking near state or federal highway intersection
   
70.05   Parking trucks, recreational vehicles, and the like prohibited
   
70.06   Parking in designated handicapped area; signage requirements for
designated handicapped parking spaces
   
70.07   Parking in fire lanes prohibited
   
70.08   Snow emergencies
   
70.09   Temporary alterations
   
70.10   Leaving vehicle unattended with engine in operation
Violation; Citation and Impoundment
   
70.20   Parking Violation Hearing Board
   
70.21   Citation for violation; contents
   
70.22   Payment of fine or request for hearing
   
70.23   Hearing; appeal
   
70.24   Authority of city to impound
   
70.25   Charges
   
70.26   Payment of penalty and charges or request for hearing
   
70.27   Hearing; appeal
   
70.28   Disposition of vehicle
   
70.29   Disposition of funds
 
   
70.99   Penalty
REGULATORY PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 PARKING IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation to park or
permit to be parked or to leave standing any automobile, truck, bus, or other
vehicle operated or owned by them or under their control in any of the
locations designated in Chapter 74, Schedule I. At all such locations, the
parking prohibition covers not only the traveled portion of that side of the
street referred to, but specifically extends to the limit of the right-of-way
for each street.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation operating
or being responsible for the operation of any automobile, truck, or other
vehicle to park or permit the vehicle to be parked or left standing so that the
nearest part of the vehicle is less than 38 feet from the center line from any
street intersection, or so that the nearest part of the vehicle is less than
seven feet from either side of any intersection of any driveway that intersects
any street or public way of the city, or so that the nearest part of the
vehicle is less than 15 feet to any fire hydrant, or so that the vehicle, or
any portion of the vehicle, is parked upon a public sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation which
parks or leaves standing any automobile or other vehicle to so park or leave
the vehicle standing in such a manner that the vehicle is facing in a direction
other than the direction of traffic flow on the side of the street on which the
vehicle is parked or left standing.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING FOR CERTAIN LENGTH OF TIME PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation to leave any
vehicle unattended or inoperative on any city street or public right-of-way for
a period of time longer than 24 hours.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING NEAR STATE OR FEDERAL HIGHWAY INTERSECTION.
   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation operating or
being responsible for the operation of any automobile, truck, or other vehicle
to park or permit the vehicle to be parked or left standing on any street which
intersects with a state or federal highway, within 50 feet of the intersection
with the highway.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING TRUCKS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "MOTOR TRUCK." Any motor-propelled vehicle designed for carrying
freight or merchandise. It shall not include self-propelled vehicles designed
primarily for passenger transportation, but equipped with frames, racks, or
bodies having a load capacity of not exceeding 1000 pounds.
      (2)   "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE." A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which
either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
This term includes camping trailer, motor home, travel trailer, and truck
camper.
         (a)   "CAMPING TRAILER." A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels
and constructed with collapsible partial side walls which fold for towing by
another vehicle and unfold at the camp site to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use.
         (b)   "MOTOR HOME." A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use built on or
permanently attached to a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis
cab which is an integral part of the completed vehicle.
         (c)   "TRAVEL TRAILER." A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, designed
to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use.
         (d)   "TRUCK CAMPER." A portable unit constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use, consisting of a roof,
floor, and sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a
pick-up truck.
      (3)   "SEMITRAILER." A vehicle designed to be attached to, and having its
front end supported by, a motor truck or truck tractor, intended for the
carrying of freight or merchandise and having a load capacity of over 1000
pounds.
      (4)   "TRAILER." Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle or
truck tractor, but supported wholly upon its own wheels, intended for the
carriage of freight or merchandise, and having a load capacity of over 1000
pounds.
      (5)   "TRUCK TRACTOR." Any motor-propelled vehicle designed to draw and
to support the front end of a semitrailer.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation to leave
any motor truck, recreational vehicle, semitrailer, truck tractor, trailer, or
similar type vehicle parked at any time on any city street or public right-of-
way within the city. The provisions of this section shall not apply to delivery
or service trucks while engaged in making deliveries or rendering services.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-13-86, passed 5-27-86)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 PARKING IN DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED AREA; SIGNAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR
DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   No person shall park in a designated handicapped parking area a motor
vehicle not displaying either a handicapped auto registration plate as provided
in KRS 186.042 or an out-of-state handicapped registration plate on the rear of
the vehicle unless he displays on the rear view mirror of his motor vehicle a
special parking permit issued to the handicapped as provided in KRS 189.456. No
person shall park a vehicle displaying a special parking permit in a designated
handicapped parking area when the vehicle is not being used for the benefit of
a handicapped person. (Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
   (B)   All designated handicapped parking spaces in the city shall be marked
by standing signs meeting the specifications set forth in division (B)(1)
hereof and it shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises on which
such parking spaces are located to provide the required signage.
      (1)   The signs marking designated parking spaces shall be constructed to
comply with the following specifications:
         (a)   Signs shall display the International Symbol of Accessibility.
         (b)   Signs shall have light letters on dark background (preferably
white on blue).
         (c)   Signs shall be erected in a permanent manner at a minimum of 40
inches above the ground for each parking space.
         (d)   Signs may either be wood or metal.
         (e)   Signs shall be a minimum of 12 inches by 18 inches.
         (f)   Signs shall conform to Chapter 11 of the 1988 Kentucky Building
Code.
      (2)   Standing signs designating parking spaces which are in existence on
the effective date of this division (B) shall be considered in compliance with
the provisions of this division (B) if the Chief of Police makes a
determination that such signs accomplish the intent of this division (B) as
expressed in the preamble to Ordinance 0-21-88.
      (3)   All signs required by this division (B) shall be constructed and in
place by March 1, 2004.
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of this division shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
      (5)   All violations of this chapter are designated as civil offense and
enforced by imposing civil fines as set out in §
33.70 et seq. The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue
remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this code.
(Ord. 0-21-88, passed 9-13-88; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.07 PARKING IN FIRE LANES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or entity shall park or have placed in a designated fire
lane area any motor vehicle, such fire lane areas are to be designated in
accordance with applicable provisions of the Standards of Safety of Kentucky,
815 KAR 10:020, Section 13, Sub-paragraph H and other applicable governmental
regulations.
   (B)   Designated fire lane areas are set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule II, which is a list prepared by the local fire marshall.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.08 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   At times of heavy snowfall when, in his or her opinion, an emergency
situation exists requiring immediate plowing, salting, sanding, or other
clearing of snow from the public ways of the city, the Mayor or the city
coordinator is authorized and empowered to declare a snow emergency.
   (B)   The Mayor or City Coordinator shall make a declaration of a snow
emergency by giving either oral, written or telephone notification to the
highest ranking officer of the Florence Police Department on duty at the time
the emergency is declared. The officer shall note the time and date the notice
is received by him on a form which is like or similar to the "Snow Emergency
Form" attached to Ordinance O-37-93 in the City Clerk's Office. The officer
shall file the Snow Emergency Form in the Office of the City Clerk within a
reasonable time after receipt of notification of the emergency.
   (C)   Upon the declaration of any snow emergency, the officer shall, as soon
as possible, notify local radio stations, television stations, newspapers, and
other members of the news media as will, in the judgment of the officer, afford
the earliest and best information to persons using the public ways of the city
of the existence of the snow emergency. In notifying the members of the news
media, the officer shall request that the notice of the snow emergency and the
requirements thereof be broadcast or published as soon as possible. No other
notices of the existence of the snow emergency shall be required.
   (D)   A snow emergency shall expire 24 hours after it is declared. The Mayor
or City Coordinator may declare a new snow emergency to commence immediately
upon expiration of an existing snow emergency by giving notice as provided in
division (B) above.
   (E)   During the existence of any snow emergency duly declared, it shall be
a violation for any person, firm, or corporation to leave parked any motor
vehicle on any public way of the city so as to hinder or interfere with the
plowing, salting, sanding, or other clearing of snow from any public way.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-37-93, passed 12-14-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.09 TEMPORARY ALTERATIONS.
   (A   )The Chief of Police or Public Services Director shall have the
authority to alter any of the parking regulations stated in §§
70.01 through
70.07 on a temporary basis whenever necessary to meet a special event or
emergency which, in their opinion, would justify such temporary alterations.
They shall, however, cause any area so altered to be marked with temporary
signs stating the nature of the alteration and that the alteration or change is
made by order of the Police Department or Public Services Department.
   (B)   The Public Services Director shall have the authority to temporarily
alter the parking regulations stated in §§
70.01 through
70.07 by designating areas in which no parking will be allowed for a specific
period of time. The Public Services Director shall exercise this authority only
in instances where street sweeping, clean up, or repair to streets, drains, and
related facilities is expected to be conducted within the area designated
during the time specified. The area designated by the Public Services Director
under the authority granted above shall be marked by signs to inform the public
that parking will be prohibited during a specified period of time. The signs
shall be placed in the area not less than 24 hours prior to the beginning of
the period specified for the parking prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for any person, firm, or corporation to park
or permit to be parked or to leave standing any automobile, truck, or other
vehicle operated or owned by them or which is under their control on any street
or public way in any area which has been designated by the Chief of Police or
Public Services Director as a no parking area under the authority hereof.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.10 LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED WITH ENGINE IN OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for any person, firm or corporation operating
or being responsible for the operation of any automobile, truck or other motor
vehicle to permit same to stand unattended upon any public street or public way
within the city or upon any place accessible to the public within the city with
the engine in operation for a period of more than three minutes.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to any automobile, truck or other
motor vehicle left standing an the property of a truckstop. As used herein, the
word "TRUCKSTOP" shall mean an establishment which sells fuel for tractor-
trailer trucks; and has repair facilities for tractor-trailer trucks; and has
parking spaces for more than 20 tractor-trailer trucks; and is primarily in the
business of fueling, repairing and servicing tractor-trailer trucks.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to automobiles, trucks or other motor
vehicles, the operators of which are engaged in making deliveries or rendering
services; which are police or emergency vehicles; which are owned or operated
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, a city or county, or a public utility; or any
contractor while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of streets,
street improvements or utilities within the city.
   (B)   A penalty is hereby imposed for any violation of this section in the
form of a fine of $30 for each such violation.
(Ord. 0-29-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04
VIOLATION; CITATION AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.20 PARKING VIOLATION HEARING BOARD.
   There has been established a City of Florence Code Enforcement Board in
accordance with §
33.70 et seq. The Board is hereby empowered to conduct the hearings and make
the decisions provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 0-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.21 CITATION FOR VIOLATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   If any automobile, truck, or other vehicle is found parked, standing,
or stopped in violation of the parking regulations of this chapter, the vehicle
may be cited for the appropriate parking violation. The citing officer shall
note the vehicle's registration number and any other information concerning the
vehicle which will identify it and, if the driver is not present, shall
conspicuously affix to the vehicle a citation as notice of the parking
violation.
   (B)   The form of the citation of the parking violation shall be as
prescribed in §
33.70 et seq.
(Ord. 0-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.22 PAYMENT OF FINE OR REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person who receives a citation for a parking violation shall
respond to such citation as provided in
33.70 et seq.
   (B)   The registered owner of a vehicle at the time the violation occurred
shall be liable for all fines, fees, and penalties which he has refused to pay.
(Ord. 0-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.23 HEARING; APPEAL.
   Any person cited for a parking violation under this chapter may contest the
determination that a violation occurred by requesting in writing a hearing
before the city Code Enforcement Board. The hearing shall be held in accordance
with §
33.70 et seq. Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine
levied by the citation.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.24 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO IMPOUND.
   The city may impound a vehicle parked, stopped, or standing upon a street or
public way within the city in violation of the parking regulations of this
chapter or any statute at the time the citation is issued; or at any time a
vehicle, with respect to which a final determination has been made hereunder
that a parking violation penalty is owing and which is unpaid, is found in the
city; or for any other legal purpose.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
§ 70.25 CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties levied for the parking violations, there
are hereby imposed the towing, holding, and storage charges upon such impounded
vehicle as follows:
   (B)   For vehicles impounded under the provisions of this chapter, the fees
imposed shall be as follows:
      (1)   Towing. From $50 to $100 in accordance with a schedule to be
established by the City Coordinator and filed with the City Clerk. Prior to
approval of a schedule of towing charges, the City Coordinator shall determine
the currently prevailing rates in the city for similar towing services and
shall not approve any towing rate schedule in excess of the prevailing rate in
the city. In no event, however, shall the approved rate be less than $50 nor
more than $100.
   In the event the condition of the vehicle or circumstances of the tow
requires the employment of extraordinary services or equipment, the reasonable
charges of the towing operator, as approved by the Chief of Police, for such
shall be added to the fee.
      (2)   Storage. From $12 to $25 per day to be established in accordance
with a schedule to be approved by the City Coordinator and filed with the City
Clerk. The City Coordinator shall determine storage charges in the same manner
as towing charges are to be determined in division (1) above. In no event shall
the approved rate for storage be less than $12 nor more than $25 per day.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-9-89, passed 3-14-89; Am. Ord. O-28-
94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. 0-4-97, passed 2-11-97; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed
4-27-04)
§ 70.26 PAYMENT OF PENALTY AND CHARGES OR REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   The release of an impounded vehicle is conditioned upon the payment of the
penalty levied for the parking violations and the towing, holding, and storage
charges imposed thereon, unless the owner or other person entitled to
possession challenges the validity of the impoundment pursuant to §
70.27. An impounded vehicle may be released to the owner or other person
entitled to possession only upon proof of ownership or right to possession. The
city may require reasonable security, bond, or other assurances of
indemnification from a person who is not the registered owner of the vehicle
prior to releasing the vehicle to such person.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85)
§ 70.27 HEARING; APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to this
subchapter or other person entitled to possession, may challenge the validity
of such impoundment and request in writing a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board. The hearing shall be conducted at the regular meeting of the
Board. The city shall retain possession of the vehicle pending the hearing,
unless the owner or other person claiming right of possession posts a bond in
an amount equal to the fines and fees accrued as of the date of the hearing
request, or $75 whichever is less.
   (B)   Any person who refuses or, except for good cause, fails to appear at
the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have conceded on his
and the owner's behalf the validity of the impoundment.
   (C)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Board shall
determine whether the impoundment was valid and reasonable. Where it has not
been established that the impoundment was justified, an order releasing the
vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees paid or amounts posted as bond
because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall be returned. Where it has been
established that the impoundment was justified, the Board shall uphold the
impoundment and condition the release of the vehicle upon payment of all fines
and fees accruing thereto. If bond has been posted as security for release of
the vehicle, the bond shall be forfeited to the city. All fines or fees in
excess of the amount of the bond posted shall be ordered to be paid by the
owner of the vehicle to the city. The Board shall furnish the owner or person
appearing on the owner's behalf with a copy of its order.
   (D)   The Board may consider a parking citation and any other written report
made under oath by the issuing officer in lieu of the officer's personal
appearance at the hearing.
   (E)   An appeal from the Code Enforcement Board's determination may be made
in accordance with §
33.70 et seq.
(Ord. 0-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.28 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   If within ten business days of impoundment a motor vehicle impounded
by the city has not been claimed, or a hearing has not been requested, notice
shall be mailed by certified mail to the registered owner, if known, and
lienholders of record, if any, affording such parties the right within ten days
from the date of notice to claim the vehicle or request a hearing. The notice
shall state that, if no hearing is requested, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned unless the charges thereon are paid within 90 days of receipt of the
notice.
   (B)   After 90 days from the date of notice required by division (A) above,
an impounded vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall escheat to
and become the property of the city.
   (C)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the city may obtain a
certificate of registration and ownership from the County Clerk pursuant to KRS
186.020 and either use the vehicle for governmental purposes or sell the
vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the vehicle is not suitable
for use, it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
   (D)   The city shall possess a lien on a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to
the provisions hereof for all fines, penalties, and towing, handling, and
storage charges and fees imposed thereon. Such lien shall be superior to and
have priority over all other liens thereon.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.29 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fines, penalties, towing, handling, and storage charges herein imposed
shall be remitted to the City Finance Department and deposited in the General
Fund of the city to be used for general expenses of the city.
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   A penalty is hereby imposed for any violation of the provisions of §
70.06(A) in the form of a fine of $30 for each violation and for any violation
of any of the other parking regulations herein enacted in the form of a fine of
$30 for each such violation. All violations of this chapter which are
designated as civil offenses shall be enforced by imposing civil fines as set
out in $33.70 et seq. The city Code Enforcement Boar shall have the power to
issue remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this code. Any person,
firm or corporation found guilty of violating the provisions of §
70.06(B) shall be fined the sum of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for
each offense. Each designated handicapped parking space for which there is not
a proper sign shall be considered a separate offense
(Ord. O-4-85, passed 2-26-85; Am. Ord. O-21-88, passed 9-13-88; Am. Ord. O-12-
04, passed 4-27-04)
CHAPTER 70A: TRUCKS
Section
   
70A.01   Definitions
   
70A.02    Truck traffic or residential streets prohibited; exceptions
   
70A.03    Signs to be posted
 
   
70A.99   Penalty
  Cross-reference:
   
Parking of trucks, see Chapter 70
   Weight limits, see
Chapter 73, Sched. V
§ 70A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "TRUCK TRACTOR." Any motor-propelled vehicle designed to draw and
to support the front end of a semi-trailer.
      (2)   "SEMI-TRAILER." A vehicle designed to be attached to, and having
its front end supported by, a motor truck or truck tractor, intended for the
carrying of freight or merchandise and having a load capacity of over 1,500
pounds.
      (3)   "TRAILER." Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle or
truck tractor, but supported wholly upon its own wheels, intended for the
carriage of freight or merchandise, and having a load capacity of over 1,000
pounds.
      (4)   "PERSON." Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter the term "TRUCK" or "TRUCKS" shall
mean and include those vehicles described as "TRUCK-TRACTOR", "SEMI-TRAILER"
and "TRAILER" in division (A) hereof.
(Ord. O-23-88, passed 9-27-88)
§ 70A.02 TRUCK TRAFFIC ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any truck on any
residential street in the city. For the purpose of this section "RESIDENTIAL
STREETS" are those streets or portions of streets listed in Exhibit "D" which
is attached to Ordinance O-32-05 and incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Operation on street or destination. The operation of trucks upon
any residential street where necessary to the conduct of business at a
destination point on such street or where it is necessary to travel on
residential streets to reach a business destination point on another
residential street, providing that in so using residential streets trucks shall
travel to and from the business destination point by the shortest possible
route. The phrase "CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT A DESTINATION POINT" shall not
include parking of trucks on any residential premises.
      (2)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the city.
      (3)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utilities, any contractor or material supplier, while engaged in
the repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements, or
utilities within the city.
      (4)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially
established detour.
(Ord. O-23-88, passed 9-27-88) Penalty, see §
70A.99
§ 70A.03 SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   The city shall cause signs to be posted to give notice of the truck traffic
prohibition of this chapter. Such signs shall be placed on residential streets
in the city at the points where residential streets intersect with other
streets and shall indicate that trucks are prohibited from entering the
residential street. No person shall be charged with violating the provisions of
this chapter unless appropriate signs are posted.
(Ord. O-23-88, passed 9-27-88)
§ 70A.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500
or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. O-23-88, passed 9-27-88)
CHAPTER 71: MOTORCYCLES; MINI-BIKES
Section
Motorcycles
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Operating motorcycle upon private property without consent prohibited
   
71.03   Written consent required
   
71.04   Consent form
   
71.05   Exceptions
   
71.06   Duty to use reasonable care
 
   
71.99   Penalty
MOTORCYCLES
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. "MOTORCYCLE."
Any motor driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for use of the operator and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
excluding tractors, riding lawnmowers, and vehicles on which the operator and
passengers ride in an enclosed cab.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
§ 71.02 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride a motorcycle on any
private property within the city unless the person riding or operating the
motorcycle has obtained the written consent of the owner or owners of the
private property on which the person is riding or operating the motorcycle, and
unless the person so operating or riding the motorcycle has in his possession
at the time he is riding or operating the motorcycle the written consent of the
owners of the private property on which he is operating the motorcycle.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 WRITTEN CONSENT REQUIRED.
   The written consent to be given by the owner or owners of private property
described in §
71.02 shall grant to the person named therein permission to operate a
motorcycle on the property described. Not more than one person shall be granted
the permission required in each separate written consent. A written consent
shall be invalid unless the name of the person who is granted the permission by
the consent is written therein. This written consent shall not be transferable.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
§ 71.04 CONSENT FORM.
   The written consent required by §§
71.02 and
71.03 shall be substantially in the form as follows:
    CONSENT TO OPERATE A MOTORCYCLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
   I/We                    hereby certify that I/we am or are the owner/owners
of the property located at                                
          (Street Address) which property consists of
                                                                     (brief
description of property)
   I/We hereby give permission to                                            
to ride or operate a motorcycle on the above described property. This written
consent is granted under and in compliance with the provision of City of
Florence Ordinance No. O-50-74.
   Given under my/our hand(s) this                                   day of
     , 19    .
                                                                   
                                                                    
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
§ 71.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The owner of private property in the city, his or her spouse, dependent
children, or tenants and their dependent children, who reside upon the property
shall, without procuring the written consent required, have the right to
operate a motorcycle on the property of which they are the bona fide owners,
the spouse or dependent children of the owners or tenants, or dependent
children of tenants who reside upon the property.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
§ 71.06 DUTY TO USE REASONABLE CARE.
   The fact that the person so operating a motorcycle has complied with the
provisions of this chapter and obtained the consent required thereby shall in
no way relieve the person operating a motor- cycle from the duty to operate it
in a reasonable manner so as not to create a nuisance or unreasonably disturb
the peace, or from the duty to comply with all other applicable laws and
regulations pertaining to the operation of motorcycles.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.02 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500.
(Ord. O-50-74, passed 11-26-74)
CHAPTER 72: REPOSSESSION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Restrictions prior to repossession
   
72.04   Restrictions after repossession
   
72.05   Occupational license required
   
72.06   Rights and duties of parties
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate the threat to public safety
caused when a motor vehicle is repossessed under circumstances which do not
constitute a crime, is reported stolen resulting in a search and criminal
investigation, and by accepting the filing of the documents required under §
72.03, the City of Florence nor its Police Department nor its police officers
expresses any opinion as to the ultimate rights of the parties under civil law
to possession of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. O-25-79, passed 8-28-79)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "REPOSSESSION." The peaceful taking of possession, by a secured party or its
agents, of a motor vehicle as collateral upon default of the debtor under the
authority of KRS Ch. 355.
   "SECURED PARTY." A person, firm, or corporation holding a security interest
in the motor vehicle to be repossessed and having the right to possess the
vehicle under the provisions of KRS Ch. 355.
(Ord. O-25-79, passed 8-28-79)
   "VEHICLE." All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over
or upon the public highways of this city, all vehicles passing over or upon
these highways, and all vehicles propelled by power other than muscular power,
excepting road rollers, road graders, farm tractors, vehicles on which power
shovels are mounted, such other construction equipment customarily used only on
the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation of
persons or property upon the highways, such vehicles as travel exclusively upon
rails, such vehicles as are propelled by electric power obtained from overhead
wires while being operated within the municipality or where the vehicles do not
travel more than five miles beyond the city limit, vehicles propelled by
muscular power, and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010 (19))
§ 72.03 RESTRICTIONS PRIOR TO REPOSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to repossess any
motor vehicle in the city until that person, firm, or corporation has notified
the Florence Police Department and the Boone Public Safety Communications
Center (PSCC) of its intention to repossess the vehicle, the names of the
individuals who will make the repossession, and the approximate time of the
intended repossession; and filed with the Florence Police Department and the
PSCC a copy of a statement signed by the secured party evidencing the authority
of the person, firm, or corporation actually taking possession of the motor
vehicle to act as the agent of the secured party, together with a copy of the
security agreement covering the motor vehicle. The statement of the secured
party shall contain sufficient information to identify the motor vehicle to be
repossessed including the make, model, and serial number of the vehicle and the
name and address of the debtor.
(Ord.0-25-79, passed 8-28-79; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AFTER REPOSSESSION.
   Upon taking possession of the motor vehicle, the person, firm, or
corporation making the repossession shall immediately and without undue delay
notify the Florence Police Department and the PSCC of the fact that the
repossession has been made and the time and place thereof.
(Ord.0-25-79, passed 8-28-79; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 72.05 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm, or corporation which repossesses a motor vehicle in the
city shall obtain a City of Florence, Kentucky Occupational License. At the
time of making application for an occupational license such person, firm, or
corporation shall supply to the City Finance Department a list of the
individuals who will make repossession of motor vehicles in the city on its
behalf. The list shall contain the name, address, age and social security
number of each individual. Every person, firm, or corporation shall keep the
list current by filing supplements thereto with the City Finance Department if
the information thereon changes, it being the purpose of the requirement for
such list that the city be able to verify the identity of individuals making
motor vehicle repossession.
(Ord.0-25-79, passed 8-28-79; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 72.06 RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF PARTIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to alter or enlarge the rights,
as between a secured party and a debtor, to possession of a motor vehicle which
is collateral. Those rights shall continue to be determined by the contract
between the parties and the applicable law including, but not limited to, KRS
355. Compliance with the provisions hereof by a secured party or its agents is
not included to relieve such party or agent of liability in the event of a
wrongful repossession or to relieve such party or agent of the duty to
safeguard and make reasonable efforts to return any personal property of the
debtor which may be contained within a repossessed motor vehicle.
(Ord. O-25-79, passed 8-28-79)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   All violations of this chapter are designated as civil offenses and shall be
enforced by the imposition of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100 for each violation. The City of Florence Code Enforcement Board shall have
the power to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this
chapter.
(Ord.0-25-79, passed 8-28-79; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.    Speed regulations
   
II.    Stop intersections
   
III.   Left turns prohibited
   
IV.   One-way streets
   
V.   Truck traffic prohibited
   
VI.   Right turn only permitted
SCHEDULE I. SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The speed limit on the streets designated below shall be as indicated.
Street                                      Speed Ord. No. Date
Achates Avenue                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Action Boulevard                            25    0-5-86,  2-11-86,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Adella                                      20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Airview Avenue                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Alan Court                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Alan Street                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Algiers Street                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Allison Avenue                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Amherst Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Anchor Way                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Ann Street                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Antoinette Way                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Apex Lane                                   25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Appomattox Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Aquilla Avenue                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Armstrong Street                            20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Arrow Wood Drive                            20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Ash Street                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Ashley Court                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Atlanta Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Audubon Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Bankers Street                              25    0-24-98  12-8-98
Banklick Street                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Barnwood Court                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Barronne Street                             20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Bayfield Court                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Beam Boulevard                              25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Beauregard Place                            20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Becker Lane                                 20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Beechwood Lane                              25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Behrens Drive                               25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Belair Circle                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Belair Drive                                20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Bell Avenue                                 20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Bellegarde Court                            20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Belmont Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Belvedere Court                             20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Berkley Drive                               20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Beverly Place                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Bill Wentz Drive                            25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Bistro Court                                20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Blackstone Drive                            20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Blue Orchard Court                          20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Bob Webster Way                             25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Boone Place                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Boone Valley Drive                          20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Bourbon Street                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Bowman Way                                  25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Brantley Way                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Buckingham Court                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Buckingham Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Burgess Lane                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Burk Avenue                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Bustetter Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Butler Court                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Cabaret Court                               20    O-23-22  11-15-22
Calvet Court                                20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Canterbury Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Cardinal Drive                              20    0-5-86   2-11-86
Cardinal Place                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Carnival Court                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Carole Lane                                 20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Cavalier Boulevard                          25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Cavalier Court                              25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Calvalry Drive                              25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Cayton Road (from #1394 to end of street)   20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Cayton Road (from Mall Road to city limits) 35    O-32-05  12-20-05
Cedar Wood Circle                           20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Center Park Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Center Street                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Charles R. Callen Drive                     25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Chateau Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Chelsea Square                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Chipman Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Circle Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
City Park Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Claiborne Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Clark Street (both)                         20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Claxon Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Collingwood Court                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Colonial Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Colonnade Drive                             20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Columbia Drive                              25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Commerce Drive                              25    0-5-86,  2-11-86,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Commerce Place                              25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Commons Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Connector Drive                             25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Coreta Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Crozat Street                               20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Creekside Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Crimson Oak Drive                           20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Crist Crossing                              25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Curtis Avenue                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Cypress Lane                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dalton Drive                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Daphne Drive                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Dauphine Drive                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Decatur Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Dell Court                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dell Street                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dilcrest Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Doering Drive                               25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Dogwood Lane                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dorcas Avenue                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dortha Avenue                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Dream Street                                25    0-14-76, 4-13-76,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Drexel Avenue                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
DuMaine Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
East Cobblestone Court                      20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Eden Court                                  20    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Edward Avenue                               20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Ellingsworth Way                            20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Evergreen Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Ewing Boulevard                             35    0-2-97   1-14-97
Express Street                              25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Fair Court                                  20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Fair Street                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Farmview Drive                              25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Fescue Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Fieldstone Court                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Foltz Drive                                 25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Fontaine Court                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Foster Avenue                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Freedom Way                                 25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Frieda Place                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Fuller Street                               25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Georgian Court                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Gettysburg Lane                             20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Gibbons Street                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Girard Street                               25    0-2-97   1-14-97
Glenn Street                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Glenrose Avenue                             20    0-24-98  12-8-98
                                                O-21-10  12-17-19
Gloucester Drive                            20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Goodridge Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Grand Avenue                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Grande Fir Court                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Greystone Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hamilton Court                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Hansel Avenue                               25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Hardwicke Lane                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Harms Hill Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Harness Lane                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Harpers Ferry Drive                         20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Harvey Quast Drive                          25    O-32-05  12-20-05
Hazel Street                                20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Hearthstone Court                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Heights Boulevard                           25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Hemlock Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Heritage Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Highridge Avenue                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hillcrest Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hillside Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hilltop Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hitching Post Place                         20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Holiday Drive                               25    0-24-98, 12-8-98,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Hollywood Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Homestead Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Honeysuckle Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Honeysuckle Terrace                         20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Hope Trail                                  20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Hopeful Road                                20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Hunterallen Drive                           20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Iberville Court                             20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Imperial Court                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Investment Way                              25    O-32-05  12-20-05
Isaac Lane                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Jackson Court                               20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Jackson Rue                                 20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Jameson Lane                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
JoAnn Drive                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Joshua Court                                20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Julia Avenue                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Juniper Lane                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Kathryn Avenue                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Kelley Drive                                20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Kennedy Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Kentaboo Avenue                             20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Kernal Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Khyler Drive                                20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Kiley Place                                 25    O-20-11  10-25-11
King Drive                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
LaCresta Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lafitte Court                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Lago Mar Court                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Lake Drive                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lakeshore Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lapalco Court                               20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Larch Court                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Larkspur Court                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Lawrence Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lee Street                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lendale Drive                               25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Lexington Avenue                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Liberty Court                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lincoln Woods Drive                         20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Lloyd Avenue                                20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Locust Avenue                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Locust Lane                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Los Alos Court                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Louise Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lucas Street                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Lynn Street                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Main Street                                 25    0-2-97   1-14-97
Mall Road                                   35    O-20-11  10-25-11
Mallard Drive                               20             
Manassas Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Manderlay Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Marais Drive                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Maranatha Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Mardi Gras Way                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Meadow Lane                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Meadow Creek Drive                          20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Meadow Wood Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Meadow View Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Meijer Drive                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Mel's Lane                                  25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Merchants Street                            25    0-24-98, 12-8-98,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Merravay Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Mill Way                                    20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Mimosa Trail                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Miriam Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Mistflower Lane                             20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Mollie Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Montgomery Street                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Morgan's Trace                              20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Morris Street                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Mossy Ridge Court                           20    O-32-05  12-20-05
New Buffington Road                         35    0-52-81  12-22-81
New Uri Avenue                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Niblack Memorial Drive                      20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Nicholas Street                             20    0-51-81  12-22-81
North Dilcrest Drive                        20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Northfield Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Nottoway Court                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Oak Ridge Court                             20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Oakwood Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Oblique Street                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Oceanage Drive                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Old Toll Road                               25    0-24-98  12-8-98
Old U.S. 42                                 30    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Old World Court                             20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Orchard Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Orleans Boulevard                           25    O-32-05  12-20-05
Ormond Drive                                20    O-20-11  10-25-11
                                                O-21-19  12-17-19
Partridge Circle                            20             
Pat Day Drive                               25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Patricia Street                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Periwinkle Drive                            20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Pheasant Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Pinehurst Drive                             20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Pinnacle Drive                              25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Plantation Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Planters Trail                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Plaza Boulevard                             25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Portage Trail                               25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Preakness Drive                             20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Price Pike                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Quail Court                                 20             
Quinn Drive                                 20    0-14-76  4-13-76
R.A. Jones Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Raintree Road                               20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Ra Jean Drive                               20    12-8-98  12-8-98
Rampart Way                                 20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Ravenswood Drive                            20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Rebel Drive                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Red Cedar Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Red Clover Court                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Renegade Way                                25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Richard Street                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Richman Road                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Ridge View Avenue                           20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Ridgecrest Drive                            20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Ridgeway Avenue                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Riehl Drive                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Roberta Avenue                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Rogers Lane                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Rose Avenue                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Rosebrook Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Rosetta Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Running Creek Drive                         20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Russell Street                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Rye Court                                   20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Saddlebrook Lane                            25    0-24-98, 12-8-98,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Safeway Drive                               25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Saint Jude's Circle                         20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Sanders Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Sandstone Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Saratoga Way                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Sassafrass Lane                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Savannah Lakes Drive                        20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Scarlet Way                                 20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Schira Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Scott Drive                                 20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Sebree Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Seligman Drive                              25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Shadowridge Court                           20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Shaun Alexander Way                         25    O-21-19  12-17-19
Shelby Street                               25    0-2-97   1-14-97
Shenandoah Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Shiloh Court                                20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Shortridge Court                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Skeets Way                                  25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Sky View Drive                              20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Smith Street                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Spicewood Avenue                            20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Spiral Blvd.                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Spiral Drive                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Spruce Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
St. Charles Circle                          20    O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Louis Boulevard                         20    O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Philip Court                            20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Steeplebush Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Steilen Drive                               25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Stonegate Drive                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Stoneridge Lane                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Stonewall Trail                             20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Stratford Court                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Summer Place                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Sumter Ridge                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Sunnybrook Drive                            20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Sunrise Drive                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Surfwood Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Surrey Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Susie Drive                                 20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Sussex Drive                                25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Suzzanne Way                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Sweet Briar Avenue                          20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Sycamore Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Tabor Court                                 20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Tamarack Drive                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Tanners Lane                                30    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Taramore                                    20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Tatersall Lane                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Tealwood Court                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Ted Bushelman Boulevard                     30    O-21-19  12-17-19
Tee Street                                  20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Terrace Court                               25    O-32-05, 12-20-05,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Thomas Street                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Thorne Hill Drive                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Toulouse Drive                              20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Trace Drive                                 20    O-21-19  12-17-19
Trotters Way                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Tulane Court                                20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Twelve Oaks Drive                           20    O-20-11  10-25-11
Utz Drive                                   20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Valley Circle Drive                         20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Valley Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Valley View Drive                           20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Vandercar Way                               25    O-20-11  10-25-11
Veterans Memorial Drive                     15    O-32-05  12-20-05
Village Drive                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Virginia Avenue                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Vivian Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Wallace Avenue                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Walnut Court                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Walnut Creek Drive                          20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Waverly Drive                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Weatherington Boulevard                     35    0-24-98, 12-8-98,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Wellington Drive                            20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Wells Street                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
West Cobblestone Court                      20    0-2-97   1-14-97
West Dilcrest                               20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Westminster Court                           20    0-2-97   1-14-97
William Haines Drive                        25    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Wiltshire Way                               20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Windfield Way                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Wintergreen Court                           20    0-24-98  12-8-98
Winthrop Circle                             20    0-14-76  4-13-76
Winthrop Place                              20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Wisteria Court                              20    O-32-05  12-20-05
Woodland Avenue                             20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Woodspoint Drive                            30    0-2-97,  1-14-97,
                                                  O-20-11  10-25-11
Yealey Drive                                20    0-2-97   1-14-97
Youell Street                               20    0-2-97   1-14-97
 
    (B)   Penalty. Any person who fails to observe or operate their vehicle in
accordance with the maximum speed limits established in division (A) above
shall be in violation of this code and subject to a fine as set forth in the
specific schedule of fines contained in KRS 189.394.
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections. Stop signs for the regulation of traffic flow for
motor vehicles in the city, shall be erected and installed at the following
locations.
Intersection     Stop Street      Direction   Ord. No.        Date
Achates Avenue   Achates Avenue   4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Yealey Drive
Achates Avenue
at Lakeshore     Anchates Avenue  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Achates Avenue
and Buckingham   Achates Avenue   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Court
Action Boulevard
at Burlington    Action Boulevard north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike (KY 18)
Action Boulevard
at Ring Road at  Action Boulevard west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Florence Mall
Adella at West   Adella           west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Dilcrest Drive
Adella at North  Adella           east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Dilcrest Drive
Airview Avenue   Airview Drive    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Alan Court at    Alan Court       west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Alan Street
Alan Court and   Alan Court       3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Fair Court
Alan Street at   Circle Drive     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle Drive
Algiers Street   Algiers Street   2 way       0-32-05         12-20-05
and Rampart Way
Allison Avenue
at Colonial      Allison Avenue   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Amerisuites      Amerisuites
Hotel at Meijer  Hotel            1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ann Street at    Ann Street       south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Lee Street
Ann Street at    Ann Street       east/3 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Grand Avenue
Antoinette Way
and Rampart Way  Antoinette Way   3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(south
intersection)
Antoinette Way
and Rampart Way  Antoinette Way   3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(north
intersection)
Apex Lane and
Heights          Apex Lane        2 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
Boulevard
Apex Lane and    Apex Lane        4 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
Pinnacle Drive
Appomattox Drive
at Manassass     Appomattox Drive 4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Appomattox Drive
and              Appomattox Drive south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Weatherington
Boulevard
Aquilla Avenue   Yealey Drive     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Yealey Drive
Armstrong Street
and Algiers      Armstrong Street east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Street
Armstrong Street
and Antoinette   Armstrong Street north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Way
Arrow Wood Drive
at Walnut Creek  Arrow Wood Drive north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ash Street at                                 0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Lake Street      Ash Street       west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Ash Street at                                 0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Scott Street     Ash Street       3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Ashgrove at      Ashgrove         3 way       0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Curtis                                        O-20-11         10-25-11
Ashley Court and Ashley Court     east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Ashley Court
Ashley Court and Ashley Court     west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Scarlet Way
Atlanta Court                                 O-32-05,        12-20-05,
and Scarlet Way/ Atlanta Court    2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Butler Court
Audubon Court
and St. Louis    Audubon Court    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Bankers Street   Bankers Street   east/1 way  0-24-98,        12-8-98,
at Houston Road                               O-20-11         10-25-11
Bankers Street
and Merchants    Bankers Street   west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Street
Banklick Street
and Honeysuckle  Banklick Street  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Banklick Street
and Ravenswood   Banklick Street  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive and Walnut
Creek Drive
Barnwood Court
at Homestead     Barnwood Court   east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Barronne Street
and Longbranch   Baronne Street   south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Road
Barronne Street
and St. Louis    Baronne Street   4 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Bayfield Court
at Shadowridge   Bayfield Court   east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Beam Boulevard   Beam Boulevard   2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Biggs Drive
Beam Boulevard   Beam Boulevard   2 way/3 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Pat Day Drive
Beauregard Place Beauregard Place north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
and Marais Drive
Becker Lane at   Becker Lane      4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Valley Drive
Beechwood Lane
and Bill Wentz   Beechwood Lane   2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Behrens Drive    Behrens Drive    2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
and Houston Road
Behrens Drive
and Parking lot  Behrens Drive    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
of 8040
Burlington Pike
Belair Circle
(East) at Belair Belair Circle    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Belair Circle
(West) and Tee   Belair Circle    4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Street
Belair Circle                                 0-2-97,         1-14-97,
(West) at Belair Belair Circle    3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Belair Drive and
Belair Circle    Belair Drive     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
(W)
Belair Drive at  Belair Drive     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Spicewood Avenue
Belair Drive and Belair Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Sunset Avenue
Bell Avenue at   Bell Avenue      north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Julia Avenue
Bell Avenue at   Bell Avenue      south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Rogers Lane
Bellegarde Court Bellegarde Court west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
and Marais Drive
Belmont Court at Belmont Court    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Saddlebrook Lane
Berkley at       Berkley          south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Manderlay Drive
Berkley Drive at Berkley          east/1 way  0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Raintree Road                                 O-20-11         10-25-11
Best Buy Store   Best Buy Store   1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Meijer Drive
Beverly Place at Beverly Place    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Dorcas Avenue
Beverly Place at Beverly Place    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Bigg's Lot at    Bigg's Lot       2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Beam Drive
Bill Wentz Drive
and Beechwood    Bill Wentz Drive 3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Lane
Bill Wentz Drive
and Gunpowder    Bill Wentz Drive west/1 wa   O-21-19         12-17-19
Road
Bill Wentz Drive Bill Wentz Drive 3 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
and Mel's Lane
Bill Wentz Drive Bill Wentz Drive 2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
and U.S. 42
Bistro Court and Bistro Court     north/1 way O-21-19         12-17-19
Ormond Drive
Blue Orchard     Blue Orchard
Court at Walnut  Court            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Creek Drive
Bob Webster Way
and Connector    Bob Webster Way  3 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
Drive
Boone County     Boone County
Senior Center at Senior Center    1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Woodspoint
Boone Place at                                0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Valley Circle    Boone Place      4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Boone Valley     Boone Valley
Drive at Valley  Drive            4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle (8651)
Boone Valley
Drive and        Boone Valley     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Heritage Drive   Drive
(8750)
Boone Valley
Drive at         Boone Valley     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Pleasant Valley  Drive
Rd. (Ky. 237)
Boone Valley     Boone Valley
Drive at Valley  Drive            4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle (8851)
Bowman Way and   Bowman Way       2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Bowman Way
Brantley Way and
Savannah Lakes   Bowman Way       south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Brantely Way and Bowman Way       north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Waverly Drive
Buckingham Court
at Achates       Buckingham Court west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Buckingham Drive
at Chelsea       Buckingham Drive north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Square
Buckingham Drive
at Buckingham    Buckingham Drive south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Builders Square  Builders Square  1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Heights Drive
Burgess Lane at
Hopeful Church   Burgess Lane     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Road
Burgess Lane and Burgess Lane     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Burgess Lane
Burk Avenue at   Burk Avenue      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Ann Street
Bustetter Drive  Bustetter Drive  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Drexel Avenue
Bustetter Drive  Bustetter Drive  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Frieda Place
Butler Court and
Scarlet Way/     Butler Court     2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Atlanta Court
Cabaret Court
and Toulouse     Cabaret Court    west/1 way  O-23-22         11-15-22
Drive
Calvert Court
and Fontaine     Calvert Court    north/1 way O-21-19         12-17-19
Court
Canterbury Court
at Hillcrest     Canterbury Court south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Cardinal Drive
and Commerce     Cardinal Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Place
Cardinal Place
at Cardinal      Cardinal Place   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Carnival Court
and Algiers      Carnival Court   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Street
Carole Lane and  Carole Lane      east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Industrial Road
Catawba Lane at  Catawba Lane     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Ewing Blvd.
Cavalcade Avenue Cavalcade Avenue 4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Kentaboo Ave.
Cavalier Court
at Cavalier      Cavalier Court   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Boulevard
Cavalry Drive                                 O-32-05,        12-20-05,
and              Cavalry Drive    east/1 way
Weatherington                                 O-20-11         10-25-11
Boulevard
Cavalry Drive
and Wetherington Cavalry Drive    west/2 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Boulevard
Cavalry Drive
and Portage      Cavalry Drive    east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Trail
Cayton Road at   Cayton Road      3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Connector Drive
Cayton Road at   Cayton Road      3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Creekside Drive
Cedar Wood
Circle at Walnut Cedarwood Circle west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Creek Drive
Center Park      Center Park
Drive at Center  Drive            2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Street
Center Park      Center Park
Drive at Foster  Drive            south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Center Park      Center Park
Drive at Roberta Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Center Street
and Center Park  Center Street    2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Center Street at Center Street    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Girard Street
Center Street
and Roberta      Center Street    4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Avenue/Russell
Street
Center Street
and Shelby       Center Street    2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Street
Chateau Court    Chateau Court    west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
and Rampart Way
Chelsea Square
at Achates       Chelsea Square   east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Chipman Drive at Chipman Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Circle Drive at  Circle Drive     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lawrence Drive
Circle Drive at  Circle Drive     3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Edward Avenue
Circle Drive at
Dixie Highway    Circle Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Circle Drive at  Circle Drive     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
City Park Drive  City Park Drive  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Rosetta Drive
Claiborne Court
at Saddlebrook   Claiborne Court  2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lane
Clark Street at  Clark Street     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Claxon Drive at  Claxon Drive     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Ra Jean Drive
Collingwood      Collingwood
Court at         Court            2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Wellington Drive
Collingwood      Collingwood
Court at Amherst Court            north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Colonial Drive   Colonial Drive   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Claxon Drive
Colonial Drive
at Kathryn       Colonial Drive   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Colonnade Drive                               0-24-98,        12-8-98,
at Crimson Oak   Colonnade Drive  north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Columbia Drive
at Industrial    Columbia Drive   west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Road (KY.1829)
Columbia Drive   Columbia Drive   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Sussex Drive
Commerce Drive
at Burlington    Commerce Drive   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike (KY 18)
Commerce Place   Commerce Place   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Cardinal
Commerce Place
at Commerce      Commerce Place   west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Commons Court
and Wellington   Commons Court    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Connector Drive  Connector Drive  3 way       0-2-97,         1-14-97,
at Cayton Road                                O-32-05         12-20-05
Connector Drive
and Plaza        Connector Drive  4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Boulevard
Connector Drive
and Steinberg    Connector Drive  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Connector Drive  Connector Drive  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at End of street
Creekside Drive  Creekside Drive  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
andCayton Road
Creekside Drive
and Meadow Creek Creekside Drive  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Crimson Oak      Crimson Oak
Drive at Trace   Drive            2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Crist Crossing   Crist Crossing   east/1 way  O-21-19         12-17-19
and Houston Road
Crist Crossing
and Doering      Crist Crossing   west/1 way  O-21-19         12-17-19
Drive
Crossgate Drive
at Farmview      Crossgate Drive  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Crozat Street
and Dauphine     Crozat Street    north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Crozat Street
and Lapalco      Crozat Street    south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Court
Curtis Avenue
and Kentaboo     Curtis Avenue    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Curtis Avenue at Curtis Avenue    3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Ashgrove Place
Cypress Lane at  Cypress Lane     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Tamarack Drive
Dalton Drive and Dalton Drive     east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Belvedere Court
Dalton Drive and
Crimson Oak      Dalton Drive     west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Daphne Drive and
Orleans          Daphne Drive     east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Dauphine Drive
and Antoinette   Dauphine Drive   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Way
Decatur Court                                 O-32-05,        12-20-05,
and Orleans      Decatur Court    east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Boulevard
Dell Court at    Dell Court       east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Dell Street
Dell Street at   Dell Street      4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Julia Avenue
Dell Street at   Dell Street      north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Grand Avenue
Dell Street at   Dell Street      south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Roger Lane
Dilcrest Drive
at North         Dilcrest Drive   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Dilcrest
Doering Drive    Doering Drive    2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
and Kiley Place
Doering Drive
and Merchants    Doering Drive    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Street
Doering Drive
and Vandercar    Doering Drive    3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Way
Dortha Avenue at
Dixie Highway    Dortha Avenue    2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
(U.S.25)
Dortha Avenue at
Main Street      Dortha Avenue    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY.2367)
Dream Street at  Dream Street     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Ewing Blvd.
Drexel Avenue at Drexel Avenue    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Drexel Avenue at Drexel Avenue    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Maranantha Court
Drexel Avenue at Drexel Avenue    2 way       0-39-81         8-25-81
Oakwood Drive
DuMaine Court
and St. Charles  DuMaine Court    north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Circle (north
intersection)
DuMaine Court
and St. Charles  DuMaine Court    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Circle (south
intersection)
East Cobblestone East Cobblestone
Court at Kelley  Court            4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Eden Court and   Eden Court       2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Barrone Street                                O-21-19         12-17-19
Edward Avenue at Edward Avenue    4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Roger Lane
Edward Avenue    Edward Avenue    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
and Circle Drive
Ellingsworth Way
and Wellington   Ellingsworth Way south/1 way O-32-05         12-2005
Drive
Evergreen Drive  Evergreen Drive  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Evergreen Drive
at Tammarack     Evergreen Drive  3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive (north
entrance)
Evergreen Drive
at Tammarack     Evergreen Drive  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive (south
entrance)
Express Street
and Cavalry      Express Street   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Express Street   Express Street   west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
and Lenore Lane
Express Street   Express Street   north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
and U.S. 42
Fair Court at    Fair Court       3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Alan Court
Fair Court at    Fair Court       south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle Drive
Fair Court and   Valley Drive     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Valley Drive
Fair Street at   Fair Street      1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Smith Street
Fair Street at   Fair Street      1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Gibbons Street
Farmview Drive   Farmview Drive   south       0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Farmview Drive                                0-2-97,         1-14-97,
at Northfield    Farmview Drive   4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Dr.
Farmview Drive
at Homestead     Farmview Drive   3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Farmview Drive                                0-24-98,        12-8-98,
at Ridgecrest    Farmview Drive   3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Farmview Drive
at Steeplebush   Farmview Drive   3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Fescue Court at  Fescue Court     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Red Clover Court
Fieldstone Court
at Meadow Creek  Fieldstone Court east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Fifth Third Bank Fifth Third Bank
Lot at Bankers   Lot              1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Street
Florence Plaza   Florence Plaza   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Preakness
Foltz Drive at   Foltz Drive      2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Hansel Avenue
Fontaine Court
and Twelve Oaks  Fontaine Court   north/1 way O-21-19         12-17-19
Drive
Foster Avenue at
Center Park      Foster Avenue    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Frieda Place at  Frieda Place     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Bustetter Drive
Fudrucker's Lot  Fudrucker's Lot  1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hansel Avenue
Fuller Street
and Bankers      Fuller Street    north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Street
Fuller Street
and Kentucky     Fuller Street    south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Route 18
Furniture Fair
(both drives) at Furniture Fair   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Spiral Drive
Georgian Court   Georgian Court   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Trace Drive
Gettysburg Lane
and Planters     Gettysburg Lane  2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Trail
Gibbons Street   Gibbons Street   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Glen Street at
Burlington Pike  Glen Street      north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY.18)
Glen Street at   Glen Street      3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Roberta Avenue
Glenrose Avenue                               0-24-98         12-8-98
at Dixie Highway Glen Rose Avenue west/1 way  O-21-19         12-17-19
(U.S.25)
Gloucester Drive Gloucester Drive north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Burgess Lane
Government       Government
Center Drive     Center Drive     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
(North) at Ewing (North)
Blvd.
Government       Government
Center Drive     Center Drive     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
(South) at Ewing (South)
Blvd.
Grand Avenue and Grand Avenue     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Ann Street
Grand Avenue at  Grand Avenue     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Edward Avenue
Grand Avenue at  Grand Avenue     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
Grande Fir Court
at Tamarack      Grande Fir Court north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Greystone Court  Meadow Creek
at Meadow Creek  Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Hamilton Court   Hamilton Court   east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
and Mimosa Trail
Hansel Avenue at
Thoroughbred     Hansel Avenue    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Blvd. (KY. 717)
Hansel Drive at                               0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Turfway Road     Hansel Avenue    2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(KY. 1017)
Harms Hill Drive
at North         Harms Hill Drive east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Dilcrest
Harness Lane at
Thorne Hill      Harness Lane     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Harpers Ferry    Harpers Ferry
Drive and        Drive            west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Appomattox Drive
Harvey Quast     Harvey Quast
Drive and Old    Drive            north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Toll Road
Hazel at Louise  Hazel            east/2 way  0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Court                                         O-20-11         10-25-11
Hazel at         Hazel            west/2 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Highridge Avenue
Hearthstone      Hearthstone
Court at Meadow  Court            west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Creek Drive
Heights          Heights
Boulevard and    Boulevard        south/1 way O-21-19         12- 17-19
U.S. 42
Hemlock Court at Hemlock Court    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Tamarack Drive
Heritage Drive
at Boone Valley  Heritage Drive   4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive (both
intersections)
Heritage Drive
at Valley Circle Heritage Drive   4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive/Boone
Valley Drive
Highridge Avenue
at Kentaboo      Highridge Avenue 1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Hillcrest Drive
at Industrial    Hillcrest Drive  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Road (KY. 1829)
Hillside Drive
(North Entrance) Hillside Drive   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Vivian Drive
Hillside Drive
(South Entrance) Hillside Drive   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Vivian Drive
Hilltop Court at
Steeplebush      Hilltop Court    1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Hitching Post    Hitching Post
Place at         Place            1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Saddlebrook Lane
Holiday Drive at Holiday Drive    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
Holiday Drive at Holiday Drive    2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Steilen Dr.
Hollywood Drive  Hollywood Drive  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Home Depot (side
entrance) at     Home Depot (side 1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Meijer Dr. (2    entrance)
driveways)
Home Depot/      Home Depot/
Meijer store at  Meijer store     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Spiral Blvd.
Home Depot (side Home Depot (side
entrance) at     entrance)        4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Woodspoint Drive
Homestead Drive
at Northfield    Homestead Drive  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Homestead Drive
at Farmview      Homestead Drive  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Honeysuckle
Terrace at       Honeysuckle      south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Honeysuckle      Terrace
Drive
Honeysuckle      Honeysuckle
Drive at         Drive            3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Shenandoah Drive
Honeysuckle      Honeysuckle
Drive at         Drive            3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Banklick Street
Hope Trail and   Hope Trail       west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Hopeful Road
Hope Trail and
Hunterallen      Hope Trail       east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Hopeful Road at
Hopeful Road     Hopeful Road     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Connector
Hopeful Road at  Hopeful Road     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Rosetta Lane
Hopeful Road at  Hopeful Road     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Surfwood Drive
Iberville Court  Iberville Court  south/1 way O-21-19         12-17-19
and Eden Court
Imperial Court
at Wellington    Imperial Court   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Investment Way   Investment Way   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
and Demia Way
Isaac Lane at    Isaac Lane       south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Morris St.
Jackson Court    Jackson Court    west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
and Mimosa Trail
Jackson Court
and Scarlet Way, Jackson Court    4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Stonewall Trail
Jameson Lane at  Jameson Drive    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Steilen Drive
Jameson Lane at  Jameson Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Lacresta Drive
JoAnn Drive at   JoAnn Drive      west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Claxon Drive
Joshua Court at  Joshua Court     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Isaac Lane
Julia Avenue at  Julia Avenue     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Ann Street
Julia Avenue at  Julia Avenue     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Edwards Avenue
Julia Avenue at  Julia Avenue     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Dell Street
Juniper Lane
(North Entrance) Juniper Lane     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Tamarack
Drive
Juniper Lane
(South Entrance) Juniper Lane     2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Tamarack
Drive
Kathryn Avenue
at Colonial      Kathryn Avenue   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Kathryn Avenue
at Burlington    Kathryn Avenue   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike (KY. 18)
Kelley Drive at
Hopeful Church   Kelley Drive     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Road
Kelley Drive at                               0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Hopeful Road     Kelley Drive     east/3 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
(KY. 842)
Kelley Drive and Kelley Drive     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Stonegate Drive
Kelley Drive and
West Cobblestone
Court/East       Kelley Drive     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Cobblestone
Court
Kennedy Court at Kennedy Court    3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Surfwood Drive
Kentaboo Avenue
and Ridgeway     Kentaboo Avenue  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue/Spicewood
Avenue
Kentaboo Avenue
and Ridge View   Kentaboo Avenue  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue and
Cavalcade Avenue
Kentaboo Avenue  Kentaboo Avenue  3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Curtis
Kentaboo Avenue
at Highridge     Kentaboo Avenue  1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Kernal Drive at  Kernal Drive     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Arrow Wood Drive
Khyler Drive and
Hopeful Church   Khyler Drive     2 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
Road
Kohl's Lot at    Kohl's Lot       2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Spiral Blvd.
Lafitte Court    Lafitte Court    2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
and Rampart Way
Lakeshore Drive
(North Entrance) Lakeshore Drive  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hopeful Road
Lakeshore Drive  Lakeshore Drive
(South Entrance  (South Entrance) west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hopeful Road
Lapalco Court
and St. Louis    Lapalco Court    east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Boulevard
Larch Court at   Larch Court      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Tamarack Drive
Larkspur Court
and Mistflower   Larkspur Court   west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Lane
Lawrence Drive   Lawrence Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Circle Drive
Lee Street at    Lee Street       east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Bell Avenue
Lee Street at    Lee Street       west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Burk Avenue
Lee Street and   Lee Street       2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Dell Street
Lendale Drive at
Pleasant Valley  Lendale Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Rd. (KY. 237)
Lexington Avenue
at Dixie Highway Lexington Avenue south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S.25)
Liberty Court at Liberty Court    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Center Street
Lincoln Woods at Lincoln Woods    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Surfwood Drive
Lloyd Avenue at  Lloyd Avenue     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Girard Street
Lloyd Avenue at  Lloyd Avenue     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lynn Street
Locust Avenue
and Patricia     Locust Avenue    2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Street
Locust Avenue at Locust Avenue    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Manderlay Drive
Locust Avenue at
St. Jude's       Locust Avenue    4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle
Los Alos Court
and Oceanage     Los Alos Court   south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Lowe's Lot at    Lowe's Lot       1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Beam Drive
Lucas Street at  Lucas Street     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Lynn Street at   Lynn Street      south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Main Street
Lynn Street at   Lynn Street      3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lloyd Avenue
Mallard Drive at Mallard Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Pheasant Drive
Manassas Drive
at Appomatoox    Manassas Drive   4 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Manderlay Drive
and Locust       Manderlay Drive  3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Manderlay Drive
and R.A. Jones   Manderlay Drive  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Maranatha Court  Maranatha Court  3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Drexel Avenue
Mardi Gras Way
and Chateau      Mardi Gras Way   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Court
Mardi Gras Way   Mardi Gras Way   north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
and Jackson Rue
Meadow Creek     Meadow Creek
Drive at         Drive            south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Stonegate Drive
Meadow Creek     Meadow Creek
Drive and        Drive            4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Creekside Drive
Meadow Creek     Meadow Creek
Drive and        Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Greystone Court
Meadow Creek     Meadow Creek
Drive at         Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Stoneridge Lane
Meadow Lane at   Meadow Lane      3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Orchard Drive
Meadow Lane at
Dixie Highway    Meadow Lane      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S.25)
Meadow View      Meadow View
Drive at         Drive            1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Valleyview Drive
Meadow Wood      Meadow Wood
Drive at         Drive            north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Stonegate Drive
Meijer Drive at  Meijer Drive     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Houston Road
Meijer Drive at  Meijer Drive     3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Spiral Boulevard
Meijer Drive at  Meijer Drive     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Woodspoint Drive
Meijer Store     Meijer Store
(rear) at Meijer (rear)           1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Dr.
Meijer Store     Meijer Store
(north side) at  (north side)     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Meijer Drive
Mel's Lane and   Mel's Lane       north/2 way O-20-11         10-25-11
U.S. 42
Merchants Street Merchants Street 1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Houston Road
Merchants Street
and Kentucky     Merchants Street south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Route 18
Merravay Drive   Merravay Drive   3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Spruce Drive
Mill Way and
Savannah Lakes   Mill Way         west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Mimosa Trail and                              O-32-05,        12-20-05,
Scarlet Way      Mimosa Trail     2 way
(north                                        O-20-11         10-25-11
intersection)
Mimosa Trail and
Scarlet Way      Mimosa Trail     2 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
(south
intersection)
Miriam Drive
(North Entrance) Miriam Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Ewing Blvd.
Miriam Drive
(South Entrance) Miriam Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Ewing Blvd.
Mistflower Lane
and Farmview     Mistflower Lane  south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Mistflower Lane
and Periwinkle   Mistflower Lane  north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Mollie Court at  Mollie Court     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Isaac Lane
Montgomery       Montgomery
Street at Girard Street           north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Street
Montgomery       Montgomery
Street at Shelby Street           2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Street
Morgan's Trace
and Dapple Grey  Morgan's Trace   4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive, Hackney
Court
Morgan's Trace
and Horseshoe    Morgan's Trace   3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Lane
Morgan's Trace
and Saddlebrook  Morgan's Trace   north/3 way O-20-11 O-23-22 10-25-11 11-15-22
Lane (east
intersection)
Morgan's Trace
and Saddlebrook  Morgan's Trace   north/4 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Land (west
intersection)
Morgan's Trace
and Stable Gate  Morgan's Trace   3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Lane
Morris Street at Morris Street    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Mossy Ridge      Mossy Ridge
Court and        Court            east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Waverly Drive
Nature Park      Nature Park
Drive at Lower   Drive            1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Banklick Street
New Uri Avenue
(East Entrance)  New Uri Avenue   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
New Uri Avenue
(West Entrance)  New Uri Avenue   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Niblack Memorial Niblack Memorial north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive at U.S. 42 Drive
Nicholas Street
at Dixie Highway Nicholas Street  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S.25)
North Dilcrest   North Dilcrest   3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at West Dilcrest
Northfield Drive
at Farmview      Northfield Drive 4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Nottoway Court
and Orleans      Nottoway Court   east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Oak Ridge Court
at Walnut Creek  Oak Ridge Court  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Oakwood Drive at Oakwood Drive    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Oakwood Drive at Oakwood Drive    2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drexel Avenue
Oblique Street   Oblique Street   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Center Street
Oblique Street
at Burlington    Oblique Street   north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike (KY. 18)
Oceanage Drive
and Lago Mar     Oceanage Drive   east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Court
Old Toll Road
and Pleasant     Old Toll Road    west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Valley Road
Old Toll Road at Old Toll Road    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
Old U.S. 42 at   Old U.S. 42      1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Farmview Drive
Old World Court
and St. Charles  Old World Court  2 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Circle
Orchard Drive at Orchard Drive    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Rogers Lane
Orchard Drive at Orchard Drive    3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Meadow Lane
Orleans
Boulevard and    Orleans
Longbranch Road  Boulevard        4 way       O-10-11         10-25-11
(south
intersection)
Orleans
Boulevard and    Orleans
Longbranch Road  Boulevard        3 way       O-10-11         10-25-11
(north
intersection)
Orleans          Orleans
Boulevard and    Boulevard        east/1 way  O-10-11         10-25-11
Old Union Road
Ormond Drive and Ormond Drive     west/1 way  O-10-11         10-25-11
Rampart Way
Paddock Club
Apts. at         Paddock Club     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Preakness Drive  Apts.
(both entrances)
Parkland Place
at Goodridge     Parkland Place   1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Partridge Circle
at Pheasant      Partridge Circle 3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Pat Day Drive at
Houston Road     Pat Day Drive    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(Ky. 842)
Patricia Street  Patricia Street  2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Locust Avenue
Pep Boys Lot at  Pep Boys Lot     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Heights Blvd.
Pheasant Drive   Pheasant Drive   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Cayton Road
Pheasant Drive
at Hopeful       Pheasant Drive   east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Church Road (KY.
842)
Pheasant Drive
and Partridge    Pheasant Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Circle
Pinehurst Drive
at Dixie Highway Pinehurst Drive  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Pinnacle Drive   Pinnacle Drive   4 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
and Apex Lane
Planters Trail
and Wetherington Planters Trail   east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Plantation Drive
at Ewing         Plantation Drive west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Boulevard
Plaza Boulevard  Plaza Boulevard  east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Mall Road
Plaza Boulevard
at Connector     Plaza Boulevard  4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Road
Portage Trail    Portage Trail    north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
and U.S. 42
Preakness Drive
at Connector     Preakness Drive  1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Price Pike and   Price Pike       2 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Girard Street
Price Pike at    Price Pike       west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Shelby Street
Quail Court at   Quail Court      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Pheasant Drive
Quinn Drive at
Hopeful Church   Quinn Drive      west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Road (KY. 842)
R.A. Jones Drive
at Manderlay     R.A. Jones Drive 3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ra Jean Drive at Ra Jean Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Allison Avenue
Ra Jean Drive at Ra Jean Drive    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Wallace Avenue
Raintree Road at Raintree Road    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Berkley
Raintree Road at Raintree Road    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Manderlay Drive
Raintree Road at
Walnut Creek     Raintree Road    3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Rampart Way and
Antoinette Way   Rampart Way      3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(south
intersection)
Rampart Way and
Antoinette Way   Rampart Way      3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(north
intersection)
Rampart Way and
St. Louis        Rampart Way      south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Boulevard
Ravenswood Drive
at Walnut Creek  Ravenswood Drive 4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
and Oak Ridge
Ravenswood Drive
at Walnut Creek  Ravenswood Drive 3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
and Banklick
Ravenswood Drive
at Walnut Creek  Ravenswood Drive 3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Rebel Drive at
Burlington Pike  Rebel Drive      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY.18)
Red Cedar Court  Red Cedar Court  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Juniper Lane
Red Clover Court
at Homestead     Red Clover Court east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Renegade Way and
Ted Bushelman    Renegade Way     4 way       O-21-19         12- 17-19
Boulevard
Richard Street
at Saint Jude's  Richard Street   west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle
Richman Road
(South Entrance) Richman Road     1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hansel Avenue
Richman Road
(North Entrance) Richman Road     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hansel Avenue
Richman Road and Richman Road     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Richman
Ridge View                                    0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Avenue and       Ridge View
Kentaboo Avenue  Avenue           4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
/Cavalcade
Avenue
Ridgecrest Drive
at Farmview      Ridgecrest Drive 3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ridgecrest Drive
at Steeplebush   Ridgecrest Drive 3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ridgeway Avenue  Ridgeway Avenue  3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Tee Street
Ridgeway Avenue
at Spicewood     Ridgeway Avenue  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Riehl Drive at
Dixie Highway    Riehl Drive      east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Roberta Avenue
and Center Park  Roberta Avenue   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Roberta Avenue   Roberta Avenue   4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Center Street
Roberta Avenue   Roberta Avenue   3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
and Glen Street
Rogers Lane at   Rogers Lane      west/1 way  0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Burk Avenue                                   O-20-11         10-25-11
Rogers Lane at                                0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Dixie Highway    Rogers Lane      east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
(U.S. 25)
Rogers Lane and  Rogers Lane      4 way       0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Edwards Avenue                                O-20-11         10-25-11
Rosebrook Drive
at Sky View      Rosebrook Drive  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Rosetta Drive at
Hopeful Church   Rosetta Drive    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Road (KY. 842)
Rosetta Drive at Rosetta Drive    4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Hopeful Road
Running Creek    Running Creek
Drive and Fowler Drive            west/1 way  0-32-05         12-20-05
Creek Road
Running Creek
Drive at         Running Creek    3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Steeplebush      Drive
Drive
Russell Street   Russell Street   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Russell Street   Russell Street   4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Center Street
Rye Court at     Rye Court        north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Northfield Drive
Saddlebrook Lane
and Morgan's     Saddlebrook Lane 3 way    O-23-22         11-15-22
Trace
Saddlebrook Lane
at Sassafrass    Saddlebrook Lane 4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lane
Saddlebrook Lane
and Thorne Hill  Saddlebrook Lane 4 way       0-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Saddlebrook Lane
at Weaver Road   Saddlebrook Lane west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 842)
Safeway Drive    Safeway Drive    west/1 way  0-32-05,        12-20-05,
and Freedom Way                               O-20-11         10-25-11
Safeway Drive at Safeway Drive    east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Industrial Road
Saint Jude's
Circle at Dixie  Saint Jude's     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Highway (U.S.    Circle
25)
Saint Jude's     Saint Jude's
Circle and       Circle           4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Locust Avenue
Saint Jude's     Saint Jude's
Circle and       Circle           3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Patricia Street
Saint Jude's     Saint Jude's
Circle at Locust Circle           west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Sanders Drive at
Dixie Highway    Sanders Drive    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Sandstone Court  Sandstone Court  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Kelley Drive
Saratoga Way at  Saratoga Way     1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Trotters Way
Sassafrass Lane
at Saddlebrook   Sassafrass Lane  4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Lane
Savannah Lakes   Savannah Lakes
Drive and        Drive            west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Hardwicke Lane
Savannah Lakes
Drive and        Savannah Lakes   east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Wetherington     Drive
Boulevard
Scarlet Way and
Jackson Court,   Scarlet Way      4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Stonewall Trail
Scarlet Way and
Taramore (south  Scarlet Way      4 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
intersection)
Scarlet Way and
Taramore (north  Scarlet Way      3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
intersection)
Scarlet Way and
Wetherington     Scarlet Way      west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Boulevard
Schira Court at  Schira Court     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Circle Drive
Scott Drive and  Scott Drive      3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Ash Street
Scott Drive at   Scott Drive      north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Center Street
Scott Drive at   Scott Drive      south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
Sebree Drive at
Turfway Road     Sebree Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 1017)
Seligman Drive
and Merchants    Seligman Drive   south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Street
Shadowridge      Shadowridge
Court at         Court            north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Creekside Drive
Shelby Street at Main Street      1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Main Street
Shenandoah Drive
at Dixie Highway Shenandoah Drive west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Shenandoah Drive
and Honeysuckle  Shenandoah Drive 3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive
Shiloh Court and Shiloh Court     south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Manassas Drive
Shortridge Court
at West          Shortridge Court south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Cobblestone
Court
Skeets Way and   Skeets Way       south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Cavalry Drive
Skeets Way and   Skeets Way       north/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
U.S. 42
Sky View Drive
at Meadow View   Sky View Drive   1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Smith Street at  Smith Street     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Gibbons Street
Smith Street at
Dixie Highway    Smith Street     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S.25)
Smith Street and Smith Street     3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Wells Street
Spicewood Avenue
at Highridge     Spicewood Avenue north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Spicewood Avenue
at Ridgeway      Spicewood Avenue 4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Spiral Blvd. at  Spiral Blvd.     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Meijer Drive
Spiral Drive at
Thoroughbred Dr. Spiral Drive     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 717)
Spruce Drive at
Dixie Highway    Spruce Drive     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Spruce Drive and                              0-2-97,         1-14-97,
Merravay Drive/  Spruce Drive     3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
R.A. Jones Drive
St. Charles      St. Charles
Circle and       Circle           east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Marais Drive
St. Charles                                   O-32-05,        12-20-05,
Circle and St.   St. Charles      north/2 way
Charles Circle/  Circle                       O-20-11         10-25-11
Old World Court
St. Louis        St. Louis
Boulevard and    Boulevard        4 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
Barronne Street
St. Louis        St. Louis
Boulevard and    Boulevard        south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Longbranch Road
St. Phillip      St. Phillip
Court and Marais Court            north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Steeplebush      Steeplebush
Drive at         Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Farmview Drive
Steeplebush      Steeplebush
Drive at         Drive            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Ridgecrest Drive
Steeplebush      Steeplebush
Drive at Running Drive            3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Creek Drive
Steilen Drive at Steilen Drive    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Holiday Drive
Stonegate Drive
at Hopeful       Stonegate Drive  east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Church Road (KY.
842)
Stonegate Drive  Stonegate Drive  4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Kelley Drive
Stoneridge Lane
at Hearthstone   Stoneridge Lane  east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Stoneridge Lane
at Meadow Creek  Stoneridge Lane  3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Stonewall Trail
and Scarlet Way, Stonewall Trail  4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Jackson Court
Stonewall Trail
and Stonewall    Stonewall Trail  east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
Trail
Stonewall Trail
and Twelve Oaks  Stonewall Trail  south/1 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Stratford Court
at Wellington    Stratford Court  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Studio Plus      Studio Plus
Hotel at Meijer  Hotel            1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Summer Place at  Summer Place     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Village Drive
Sumter Ridge and Sumter Ridge     west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Appomattox Drive
Sunrise Drive
and Gunpowder    Sunrise Drive    west/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Road
Sunrise Drive
and Oceanage     Sunrise Drive    east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Surfwood Drive
at Hopeful       Surfwood Drive   2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Church Road (KY.                              O-21-19         12-17-19
842)
Surfwood Drive   Surfwood Drive   4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hopeful Road
Surfwood Drive
and Kennedy      Surfwood Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Court
Surfwood Drive   Surfwood Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
and Yealey Drive
Surrey Court at  Surrey Court     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Stonegate Drive
Susie Drive and
Sunnybrook Drive Susie Drive      west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
(south
intersection)
Susie Drive and
(north           Susie Drive      west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
intersection)
Sunnybrook Drive
Sussex Drive at  Sussex Drive     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Hillcrest Drive
Suzanne Way and  Suzzanne Way     east/1 way  O-32-05         12-20-05
Yealey Drive
Sweetbriar
Avenue at        Sweetbriar       west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Burlington Pike  Avenue
(KY. 18)
Sweetbriar       Sweetbriar
Avenue and Price Avenue           3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Pike
Tabor Court and  Tabor Court      north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Waverly Drive
Tamarack Drive
at Weaver Road   Tamarack Drive   west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 842)
Tamarack Drive
(North Entrance) Tamarack Drive   3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
at Evergreen
Drive
Tamarack Drive
(South Entrance) Tamarack Drive   4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
and Evergreen
Drive
Tanners Gate     Tanners Gate
Lane at Ewing    Lane             1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Blvd.
Tanners Lane at
Burlington Pike  Tanners Lane     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 18)
Tanners Lane at  Tanners Lane     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Ewing Blvd.
Tanners Lane at
Tanners Gate     Tanners Lane     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Lane
Taramore and
Scarlet Way      Taramore         4 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(south
intersection)
Taramore and
Scarlet Way      Taramore         3 way       O-32-05         12-20-05
(north
intersection)
Tattersall Lane
at Saddlebrook   Tattersall Lane  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Lane
Tealwood Court
at Pheasant      Tealwood Court   west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Ted Bushelman
Boulevard and    Ted Bushelman    4 way       O-21-19         12-17-19
Meijer Drive/    Boulevard
Woodspoint Drvie
Tee Street at    Tee Street       1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Clark Street
Tee Street at    Tee Street       4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Belair Circle
Tee Street at    Tee Street       3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Ridgeway Avenue
Terrace Court    Terrace Court    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
and Bowman Way
Thomas Street at Thomas Street    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
JoAnn Drive
Thorne Hill      Thorne Hill                  0-2-97,         1-14-97,
Drive at         Drive            4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Saddlebrook Lane
Toulouse Drive   Toulouse Drive   north/1 way O-21-19         12-17-19
and Marais Drive
Toys R Us Lot at Toys R Us Lot    1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Connector Drive
Trace Drive at                                0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Weatherington    Trace Drive      west/1 way  O-32-05,        12-20-05,
Boulevard                                     O-20-11         10-25-11
Trotters Way at  Trotters Way     1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Saddlebrook Lane
Tulane Court and
St. Charles      Tulane Court     south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Circle
Twelve Oaks      Twelve Oaks
Drive and        Drive            north/2 way O-20-11         10-25-11
Scarlet Way
Utz Drive at
Burlington Pike  Utz Drive        south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY 18)
Valley Circle
Drive at         Valley Circle    west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Pleasant Valley  Drive
Road (KY. 237)
Valley Circle    Valley Circle
Drive and Boone  Drive            4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Valley Drive
Valley Circle    Valley Circle
Drive and Boone  Drive            4 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Place
Valley Circle                                 0-2-97,         1-14-97,
Drive and Boone  Valley Circle    4 way
Valley Drive/    Drive                        O-20-11         10-25-11
Heritage Drive
Valley Drive at
Becker Lane/Fair Valley Drive     4 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Valley Drive at
Dixie Highway    Valley Drive     east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Valley View
Drive at         Valley View      1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Pleasant Valley  Drive
Road
Vandercar Way
and Doering      Vandercar Way    3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive
Vandercar Way    Vandercar Way    east/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
and Houston Road
Veterans
Memorial Drive   Veterans         west/1 way  O-20-11         10-25-11
and Ewing        Memorial Drive
Boulevard
Village Drive    Village Drive    3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
and Summer Place
Village Drive at Village Drive    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
U.S. 42
Village Drive at
Wintergreen      Village Drive    2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Court
Virginia Avenue
at Lexington     Virginia Avenue  west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Avenue
Vivian Drive
(South Entrance) Vivian Drive     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hopeful Road
Vivian Drive
(North Entrance) Vivian Drive     west/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
at Hopeful Road
Wal-Mart Lot at  Wal-Mart Lot     2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Spiral Drive
Wallace Avenue
at Burlington    Wallace Avenue   south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike (KY. 18)
Walnut Court at  Walnut Court     south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Kentaboo Avenue
Walnut Creek     Walnut Creek
Drive and Blue   Drive            3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Orchard Court
Walnut Creek     Walnut Creek
Drive and        Drive            3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Raintree Road
Walnut Creek                                  0-2-97,         1-14-97,
Drive and        Walnut Creek
Ravenswood       Drive            4 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Drive/Oakridge
Court
Walnut Creek                                  0-24-98,        12-8-98,
Drive at         Walnut Creek
Ravenswood Drive Drive            3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
and Banklick
Street
Wellington Drive                              0-24-98,        12-8-98,
at Pleasant      Wellington Drive 2 way
Valley Rd. (KY.                               O-20-11         10-25-11
237)
Wells Street at  Wells Street     north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Smith Street
West Cobblestone West Cobblestone
Court at Kelley  Court            3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
West Dilcrest at West Dilcrest    2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
North Dilcrest
Westminster      Westminster
Court at         Court            east/1 way  0-24-98         12-8-98
Buckingham Drive
Wetherington     Wetherington                 O-32-05,        12-20-05,
Boulevard and    Boulevard        3 way       O-20-11         10-25-11
Lancashire Drive
Wiltshire Way
and Wellington   Wiltshire Way    south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Drive
Winfield Way at  Winfield Way     1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Saddlebrook Lane
William Haines   William Haines   1 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Drive at U.S. 42 Drive
William Haines
Drive at         William Haines   1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Pleasant Valley  Drive
Road
Wintergreen      Wintergreen
Court and        Court            2 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Village Drive
Winthrop Circle  Winthrop Circle  south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at Quinn Drive
Winthrop Circle
at Wintergreen   Winthrop Circle  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Drive
Wisteria Court   Wisteria Court   south/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
and Dalton Drive
Woodland Avenue  Woodland Avenue  north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
at U.S. 42
Woodspoint Drive
at Houston Road  Woodspoint Drive north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(KY. 842)
Woodspoint Drive
at World of      Woodspoint Drive 3 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Sports
Woodspoint Drive
at Burlington    Woodpoint Drive  1 way       0-24-98         12-8-98
Pike
Woodspoint Drive Woodspoint Drive 4 way       0-24-98,        12-8-98,
at Meijer Drive                               O-20-11         10-25-11
Yealey Drive at  Yealey Drive     3 way       0-2-97          1-14-97
Surfwood Drive
Yealey Drive and Yealey Drive     4 way       0-2-97,         1-14-97,
Achates Avenue                                O-20-11         10-25-11
Yealey Drive and Yealey Drive     north/1 way O-32-05         12-20-05
Hope Trail
Youell Street at
Dixie Highway    Youell Street    south/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
(U.S. 25)
Youell Street at Youell Street    north/1 way 0-24-98         12-8-98
Main Street
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who fails to observe the stop signs established in
division (A) above by operating their motor vehicle accordingly, shall be fined
or subject to any applicable penalty provided in said above-listed ordinances.
(Ord. O-19-84, passed 7-10-84; Ord. O-29-85, passed 7-23-85)
SCHEDULE III. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Left turns are prohibited in the following locations.
Traffic on Prohibited from turning left onto Ord. No. Date
Traffic on              Prohibited from turning left onto   Ord. No.   Date
Holiday Place           U.S. Highway 42                     O-15-89    4-25-89
Houston Road            Bankers Street                      O-32-05    12-20-05
Houston Road            Meijer Drive                        O-32-05    12-20-05
Kentucky Highway 18     Woodspoint Drive                    O-9-96     5-28-96
Kentucky Route 18       Tanners Lane                        O-32-05    12-20-05
                        Eastbound travel lanes of Dixie
Main Street, southbound Highway (U.S. Highway 25 and 42) at O-10-90    5-8-90
                        its intersection with Main Street
Old Toll Road           Pleasant Valley Road                O-20-11    10-25-11
Pheasant Drive          Cayton Road                         O-32-05    12-20-05
Portage Trail           U.S. Highway 42                     O-21-19  12-17-19
Skeets Way              U.S. Highway 42                     O-20-11    10-25-11
Tanners Lane            Kentucky Route 18                   O-32-05    12-20-05
U.S. Highway 42         Mel's Lane                          O-20-11    10-25-11
U.S. Highway 42         Skeets Way                          O-20-11    10-25-11
 
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
or subject to any applicable penalty provided in said above-listed ordinances.
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Traffic shall be limited to one-way travel in the following locations:
 
Street          Direction                    Ord. No.         Date
Banklick Street Main Street to Dixie Highway O-15-89; O-32-05 4-25-89; 12-20-05
Bob Webster Way Mall Road to Connector Drive O-21-19          12-17-19
Girard Street   Main Street toward           O-32-05          12-20-05
                Burlington Pike
Shelby Street   Burlington Pike toward Main  O-32-05          12-20-05
                Street
 
   (B)   The offense of violating this section is, pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2),
hereby designated a "violation" and a fine not to exceed the amount set forth
in KRS 534.040(2)(c) is hereby impose for each offense.
(Am. Ord. O-32-05, passed 12-20-05)
SCHEDULE V. TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Through trucks exceeding one-half ton are prohibited from using the
following streets:
Street                 Ord. No. Date
Achates Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Adella Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Airview Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Alan Court             O-32-05  12-20-05
Alan Street            O-32-05  12-20-05
Algiers Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Allison Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Amherst Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Anchor Way             O-32-05  12-20-05
Ann Street             O-32-05  12-20-05
Antoinette Way         O-32-05  12-20-05
Appomattox Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Aquilla Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Arbor Springs Drive    O-32-05  12-20-05
Armstrong Street       O-32-05  12-20-05
Arrow Wood Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Ash Street             O-32-05  12-20-05
Ashley Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Atlanta Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Audubon Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Banklick Street        O-32-05  12-20-05
Barnwood Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Baronne Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Bayfield Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Beauregard Place       O-20-11  10-25-11
Becker Lane            O-32-05  12-20-05
Belair Circle          O-32-05  12-20-05
Belair Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Bell Avenue            O-32-05  12-20-05
Bellegarde Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Belmont Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Belvedere Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Berkley Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Beverly Place          O-32-05  12-20-05
Bistro Court           O-21-19  12-17-19
Blackstone Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Blue Orchard Court     O-32-05  12-20-05
Boone Place            O-32-05  12-20-05
Boone Valley Drive     O-32-05  12-20-05
Bourbon Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Brantley Way           O-32-05  12-20-05
Buckingham Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Buckingham Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Burgess Lane           O-32-05  12-20-05
Burk Avenue            O-32-05  12-20-05
Bustetter Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Butler Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Cabaret Court          O-23-22  11-15-22
Calvert Court          O-21-19  12-17-19
Canterbury Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Cardinal Place         O-32-05  12-20-05
Carnival Court         O-20-11  10-25-11
Carole Lane            O-32-05  12-20-05
Cedar Wood Circle      O-32-05  12-20-05
Center Park Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Center Street          O-32-05  12-20-05
Chateau Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Chelsea Square         O-32-05  12-20-05
Chipman Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Circle Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
City Park Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Claiborne Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Clark Street           O-32-05  12-20-05
Claxon Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Crozat Street          O-20-11  10-25-11
East Cobblestone Court O-32-05  12-20-05
Collingwood Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
Colonial Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Colonnade Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Commons Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Coretta Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Creekside Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Crimson Oak Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Curtis Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Cypress Lane           O-32-05  12-20-05
Dalton Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Daphne Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Dauphine Drive         O-20-11  10-25-11
Decatur Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Dell Court             O-32-05  12-20-05
Dell Street            O-32-05  12-20-05
Dilcrest Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Dogwood Lane           O-32-05  12-20-05
Dorcas Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Dortha Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Drexel Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Dumaine Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Eden Court             O-32-05  12-20-05
Edward Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Ellingsworth Way       O-32-05  12-20-05
Fair Court             O-32-05  12-20-05
Fair Street            O-32-05  12-20-05
Farmview Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Fescue Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Fieldstone Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Fontaine Court         O-20-11  10-25-11
Foster Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Freda Place            O-32-05  12-20-05
Georgian Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Gettysburg Lane        O-32-05  12-20-05
Gibbons Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Glenn Street           O-32-05  12-20-05
Glenrose Avenue        O-32-05  12-20-05
                       O-21-19  12-17-19
Gloucester Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Goodridge Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Grand Avenue           O-32-05  12-20-05
Grande Fir Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Greystone Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Hamilton Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Hardwicke Lane         O-32-05  12-20-05
Harms Hill Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Harness Lane           O-32-05  12-20-05
Harpers Ferry Drive    O-32-05  12-20-05
Hazel Court            O-32-05  12-20-05
Hearthstone Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
Hemlock Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Heritage Crossing      O-32-05  12-20-05
Heritage Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Highgate Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Highridge Avenue       O-32-05  12-20-05
Hillcrest Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Hillside Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Hilltop Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Hitching Post Place    O-32-05  12-20-05
Hollywood Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Homestead Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Honeysuckle Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Honeysuckle Terrace    O-32-05  12-20-05
Hope Trail             O-32-05  12-20-05
Hopeful Road           O-32-05  12-20-05
Hunterallen Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Iberville Court        O-21-19  12-17-19
Imperial Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Isaac Lane             O-32-05  12-20-05
Jackson Court          O-20-11  10-25-11
Jackson Rue            O-20-11  10-25-11
Jacquelyn Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
JoAnn Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
Joshua Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Julia Avenue           O-32-05  12-20-05
Juniper Lane           O-32-05  12-20-05
Kathryn Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Kelley Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Kennedy Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Kentaboo Avenue        O-32-05  12-20-05
Kernal Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Khyler Drive           O-21-19  12-17-19
Lafitte Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Lago Mar Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Lake Drive             O-32-05  12-20-05
Lakeshore Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Lapalco Court          O-20-11  10-25-11
Larch Court            O-32-05  12-20-05
Larkspur Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Lawrence Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Lee Street             O-32-05  12-20-05
Lexington Avenue       O-32-05  12-20-05
Liberty Court          O-32-05  12-20-05
Lloyd Avenue           O-32-05  12-20-05
Locust Avenue          O-32-05  12-20-05
Locust Lane            O-32-05  12-20-05
Los Alos Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Louise Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Lucas Street           O-32-05  12-20-05
Lynn Street            O-32-05  12-20-05
Mallard Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Manassas Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Manderlay Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Marais Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Marantha Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Mardi Gras Way         O-20-11  10-25-11
Meadow Creek Drive     O-32-05  12-20-05
Meadow Lane            O-32-05  12-20-05
Meadow View Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Meadow Wood Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Merravay Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Mill Way               O-32-05  12-20-05
Mimosa Trail           O-32-05  12-20-05
Miriam Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Mistflower Lane        O-32-05  12-20-05
Mollie Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Morgan's Trace         O-20-11  10-25-11
Morris Street          O-32-05  12-20-05
Mossy Ridge Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
New Uri Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Nicholas Street        O-32-05  12-20-05
North Dilcrest         O-32-05  12-20-05
Northfield Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Nottoway Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Oak Ridge Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Oakwood Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Oblique Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Oceanage Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Old World Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Orchard Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Orleans Boulevard      O-32-05  12-20-05
Ormond Drive           O-20-11  10-25-11
Partridge Circle       O-32-05  12-20-05
Patricia Street        O-32-05  12-20-05
Periwinkle Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Pheasant Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Pinehurst Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Plantation Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Planters Trail         O-32-05  12-20-05
Preakness Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Price Pike             O-32-05  12-20-05
Quail Court            O-32-05  12-20-05
Quinn Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
R.A. Jones Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Raintree Road          O-32-05  12-20-05
Rampart Way            O-32-05  12-20-05
Ravenswood Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Ra Jean Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Rebel Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
Red Cedar Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Red Clover Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Richard Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Ridgecrest Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Ridge View Avenue      O-32-05  12-20-05
Ridgeway Avenue        O-32-05  12-20-05
Riehl Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
Roberta Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Rogers Lane            O-32-05  12-20-05
Rose Avenue            O-32-05  12-20-05
Rosebrook Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Rosetta Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Running Creek Drive    O-32-05  12-20-05
Russell Street         O-32-05  12-20-05
Rye Court              O-32-05  12-20-05
Saddlebrook Lane       O-32-05  12-20-05
Sanders Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Sandstone Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Saratoga Way           O-32-05  12-20-05
Sassafrass Lane        O-32-05  12-20-05
Savannah Lakes Drive   O-32-05  12-20-05
Scarlet Way            O-32-05  12-20-05
Schira Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Scott Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
Sebree Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Shadowridge Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
Shenandoah Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Shiloh Court           O-20-11  10-25-11
Shortridge Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Skyview Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Smith Street           O-32-05  12-20-05
Spicewood Avenue       O-32-05  12-20-05
Spruce Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Charles Circle     O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Jude’s Circle    O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Louis Boulevard    O-32-05  12-20-05
St. Philip Court       O-32-05  12-20-05
Steeplebush Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Stonegate Drive        O-32-05  12-20-05
Stoneridge Lane        O-32-05  12-20-05
Stonewall Trail        O-20-11  10-25-11
Stratford Court        O-32-05  12-20-05
Summer Place           O-32-05  12-20-05
Sumter Ridge           O-32-05  12-20-05
Sunnybrook Drive       O-20-11  10-25-11
Sunrise Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Surfwood Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Surrey Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Susie Drive            O-20-11  10-25-11
Suzanne Way            O-32-05  12-20-05
Sweet Briar Avenue     O-32-05  12-20-05
Tabor Court            O-32-05  12-20-05
Tamarack Drive         O-32-05  12-20-05
Taramore               O-32-05  12-20-05
Tattersall Lane        O-32-05  12-20-05
Tealwood Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Thomas Street          O-32-05  12-20-05
Tee Street             O-32-05  12-20-05
Thorne Hill Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Toulouse Drive         O-21-19  12-17-19
Trace Drive            O-32-05  12-20-05
Trotters Way           O-32-05  12-20-05
Tulane Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Twelve Oaks Drive      O-20-11  10-25-11
Utterback Creek Road   O-32-05  12-20-05
Utz Road               O-32-05  12-20-05
Valley Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Valley Circle Drive    O-32-05  12-20-05
Valley View Drive      O-32-05  12-20-05
Village Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Virginia Avenue        O-32-05  12-20-05
Vivian Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
Wallace Avenue         O-32-05  12-20-05
Walnut Court           O-32-05  12-20-05
Walnut Creek Drive     O-32-05  12-20-05
Waverly Drive          O-32-05  12-20-05
Wellington Drive       O-32-05  12-20-05
Wells Street           O-32-05  12-20-05
West Cobblestone Court O-32-05  12-20-05
West Dilcrest          O-32-05  12-20-05
Westminster Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
Wetherington Boulevard O-32-05  12-20-05
Wiltshire Way          O-32-05  12-20-05
Windfield Way          O-32-05  12-20-05
Wintergreen Court      O-32-05  12-20-05
Winthrop Circle        O-32-05  12-20-05
Winthrop Place         O-32-05  12-20-05
Wisteria Court         O-32-05  12-20-05
Woodland Avenue        O-32-05  12-20-05
Yealey Drive           O-32-05  12-20-05
 
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
or subject to any applicable penalty provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
SCHEDULE VI. RIGHT TURN ONLY PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a left-
hand turn or proceed across the following designated areas and operators may be
permitted to make a right-turn only in the following directions.
      (1)   From Action Boulevard onto Kentucky Route 18.
      (2)   From Bankers Street onto Houston Road.
      (3)   From Commerce Drive onto Kentucky Route 18.
      (4)   From Meijer Drive onto Houston Road.
      (5)   From Woodspoint Drive onto Kentucky Route 18.
      (6)   From southbound Dortha Avenue onto Dixie Highway (U.S. 25).
      (7)   From Mel's Lane onto U.S. Highway 42.
      (8)   From Heights Boulevard onto U.S. Highway 42.
      (9)   From Haines Drive onto U.S. 42.
      (10)   From Skeets Way onto U.S. 42.
      (11)   From Old Toll Road onto Pleasant Valley Road.
      (12)   From Bill Wentz Drive onto U.S. Highway 42.
   (B)   The offense of violating this section is, pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2),
hereby designated a “violation” and a fine not to exceed the amount set forth
in KRS 534.040(2)(c) is hereby impose for each offense.
(Ord. O-32-05, passed 12-20-05; Am. Ord. O-20-11, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord O-
21-19, passed 12-17-19; Am. Ord. O-23-22, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES  
Schedule
   
I.    Parking prohibited
   
II.    Fire lanes
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations.
Street Side House # Portion Ord. No. Date
Street       Side      House #  Portion                                                     Ord. No.      Date
Achates                                                                                                   2-
Avenue       South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Action                                                                                                    2-
Boulevard    Both               From beginning to end                                       O-3-86        11-
                                                                                                          86
                                                                                                          11-
                                                                                                          26-
Adella Court South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-36-85, 10-  85,
                                                                                            25-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Airview Ave. East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Alan Court   Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Alan Street  Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Algiers                                                                                                   4-
Street       North     Odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Allison Ave. East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Amherst                                                                                                   1-
Court        North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
Anchor Way   South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Ann Street   East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
             West      even     From #22 Ann to Burke Street                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                       even     No parking here to corner at #16 Ann                        O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Antoinette             even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04, 10-  04,
Way                                                                                         25-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Apex Lane    Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Appomattox   Both               From Wetherinton Boulevard to Manassas Drive                O-24-98, O-   98,
Drive                                                                                       12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          4-
             East      odd      From Manassas Drive to end and circle                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Aquilla Ave. North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Aquilla Ave. North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Arrow Wood   South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Ash Street   South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          4-
Ashley Court Both               From beginning to end                                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Atlanta                                                                                                   12-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Audubon      East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04; O-   04;
Court                                                                                       32-05         12-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          05
Bankers                                                                                                   1-
Street       Both               From beginning to end in city limits                        O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
Banklick                                                                                                  26-
Street       East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        85
(Upper)                                                                                     O-21-19       12-
                                                                                                          17-
                                                                                                          19
Banklick                                                                                                  1-
Street       Both               To 7684                                                     O-2-97        14-
(Lower)                                                                                                   97
                                                                                                          1-
                       odd      From 7684 to end of street                                  O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Barnwood                                                                                                  1-
Court        North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Barronne                                                                                                  10-
Street       East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Bayfield                                                                                                  1-
Court        South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Beam                                                                                                      1-
Boulevard    Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Beauregard                                                                                                10-
Place        West      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Becker Lane            even     Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Beechwood                                                                                                 10-
Lane         Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Behrens                                                                                                   12-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Belair                                                                                                    12-
Circle (West East      odd      From #152 to #196                                           O-24-98       8-98
Entrance)
(East        West      even     From #201 to #253                                           O-24-98       12-
Entrance)                                                                                                 8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Belair Drive South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Bell Avenue  East      even     From beginning to end. No parking here to corner from       O-24-98, O-   98,
                                driveway at #9                                              12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
Bellegarde                                                                                                12-
Court        South     odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Belmont      East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Court                                                                                                     8-98
Belvedere                                                                                                 4-
Court        West      even     Entire length and cul de sacs                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Berkley      S/E       even     Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Beverly                                                                                                   2-
Place        North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Bill Wentz                                                                                                10-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Bistro Court South     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Blackstone                                                                                                1-
Drive        East      even     From beginning to end in city limits and circle             O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Blue Orchard                                                                                              2-
Court        South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Bob Webster                                                                                               12-
Way          Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          2-
Boone Place  West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Boone Valley                                                                                              2-
Drive        North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Bourbon                                                                                                   4-
Street       North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          12-
Bowman Way   Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          4-
Brantley Way West      odd      Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Buckingham                                                                                                2-
Court        East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Buckingham                                                                                                2-
Drive        South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Burgess Lane South     even     From Hopeful Church Road to intersection with Burgess Lane  O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                       odd      Inner side of loop from intersection with Burgess           O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Burke Avenue East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
             West      even     In curve between signs #52-58                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Bustetter                                                                                                 1-
Drive        East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
             Both               From #53 to Drexel Avenue                                   O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          12-
Butler Court Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Cabaret                                                                                                   11-
Court        South     odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-23-22       15-
                                                                                                          22
Calvert                                                                                                   12-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Canterbury                                                                                                2-
Court        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Cardinal                                                                                                  1-
Drive        Both               From Ky. 18 to Commerce Pl.                                 O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
             North     even     From Commerce Pl. to dead end and circle                    O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Cardinal                                                                                                  2-
Place        East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Carnival                                                                                                  10-
Court        East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          10-
Carole Lane  Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Cavalier                                                                                                  1-
Boulevard    Both               From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Cavalier                                                                                                  1-
Court        Both               Entire length of public roadway ending at motel entrance    O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Cavalry                                                                                                   12-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
                                                                                                          97,
                                                                                            O-2-97, O-32- 12-
Cayton Road  West      even     From #1394 to the end of the street                         05, O-20-11   20-
                                                                                                          05,
                                                                                                          10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
             Both               From Mall Road to city limits                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Cedar Wood   South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Circle                                                                                                    8-98
Center Park                                                                                               1-
Drive        North     even     Outer side of loop from #324 to Foster Avenue               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
             South/                                                                                       1-
             West      odd      #315 to Center Street                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Center                                                                                                    2-
Street       Both               From Girard Street to Oblique Street                        O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
             North     even     From Oblique Street to end of street                        O-4-85, O-20- 85,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                No parking here to corner 38' from Russell Street in front                10-
             South     odd      of #205                                                     O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Charles R.                                                                                                12-
Callen Drive Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Chateau                                                                                                   12-
Court        North     even     Entire length & circle                                      O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Chelsea                                                                                                   2-
Square       East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Chipman      South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Drive                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
                                                                                                          85,
                       odd      From beginning to end.                                      O-4-85, O-12- 4-
Circle Drive West      even     No parking here to corner from driveway at #14 and #8 to    04, O-20-11   27-
                                Fair Court                                                                04,
                                                                                                          10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
City Park    Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Drive                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Claiborne                                                                                                 1-
Court        West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Clark Street           even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
(Paved)                                                                                                   8-98
                       odd      No parking in front of #6313 and #6315 Clark St.            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Clark Street North              From Kentaboo Ave. to dead end                              O-24-98       12-
(Gravel)                                                                                                  8-98
Claxon Drive East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Collingwood  East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Court                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Colonial                                                                                                  2-
Drive        South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Colonnade    North     even     Entire length and cul de sac                                O-24-98, O-   98,
Drive                                                                                       20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Columbia                                                                                                  2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Commerce                                                                                                  2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-3-86        11-
                                                                                                          86
Commerce                                                                                                  2-
Place        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-3-86        11-
                                                                                                          86
Commons                                                                                                   4-
Court        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Connector                                                                                                 2-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Coretta                                                                                                   1-
Drive        South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Creekside    South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Drive                                                                                       11            O-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Crimson Oak  West      odd      Entire length & circle                                      O-24-98, O-   98,
Dr.                                                                                         20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Crist                                                                                                     12-
Crossing     Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Crozat                                                                                                    10-
Street       East               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Curtis                                                                                                    1-
Avenue       Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Cypress Lane East      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97, O-20- 97,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          4-
Dalton Drive North     even     Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          12-
Daphne Drive SE        odd      Entire length & circle                                      O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Dauphine                                                                                                  10-
Drive        South              Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Decatur                                                                                                   10-
Court        North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Dell Court             even     From beginning to end & circle                              O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Dell Street            even     No parking here to corner 50 ft. from Grand Avenue          O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
             East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Dilcrest                                                                                                  2-
Drive        West      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Doering                                                                                                   12-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          1-
Dogwood Lane North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Dorcas       East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Avenue                                                                                      11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Dortha       West      even     From beginning to end & circle. No parking here to corner   O-24-98 O-20- 8-98
Avenue       East      odd      from entrance/exit of 6890 Dixie Highway to Dixie Highway   11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Dream Street Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Drexel                 even     No parking here to corner from #46 to Bustetter             O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
                                                                                                          2-
             North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
DuMaine                                                                                                   4-
Court        Northeast          Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
East Cobble                                                                                               1-
stone Court  North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          10-
Eden Court   North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Edwards                                                                                                   2-
Avenue       West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Ellingsworth                                                                                              4-
Way          Both               From beginning to end                                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Evergreen                                                                                                 1-
Drive        Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Ewing Blvd.  Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Express                                                                                                   10-
Street       Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Fair Court   East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
             West      odd      From House #105 to Alan Court                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
Fair Street  North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Farmview                                                                                                  1-
Drive        Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Fescue Court S/W       odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Fieldstone                                                                                                1-
Court        South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Foltz Drive  Both               From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Fontaine                                                                                                  10-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Foster       North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Avenue                                                                                      11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Freedom Way  Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Frieda Place South     outbound From beginning to end & circle                              O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Fuller                                                                                                    10-
Street       Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Georgian     West      odd      Entire length and cul de sac                                O-24-98, O-   98,
Court                                                                                       12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
Gettysburg                                                                                                4-
Lane         West      odd      Entire length and circles                                   O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Gibbons                                                                                                   2-
Street       East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Girard                                                                                                    2-
Street       Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Glenn Street East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
                                                                                                          98,
                                                                                                          10-
                                                                                            O-24-98, O-   25-
Glenrose     South              From beginning to end and turnaround                        20-11         11
Avenue                                                                                      O-21-19       12-
                                                                                            O-23-22    17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          11-
                                                                                                          15-
                                                                                                          22
Gloucester   East      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                       even     No parking here to corner @ #802 Gloucester Drive           O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Goodridge                                                                                                 1-
Drive        East      even     Entire length in city limits                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Grand Avenue           even     From beginning to end. No parking here to corner from       O-2-97, O-12- 97,
                                driveway at #61 to Dell Street                              04            4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
Grande Fir                                                                                                11-
Court        West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-36-85       26-
                                                                                                          85
Greystone                                                                                                 1-
Court        East      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Hamilton                                                                                                  10-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Hansel       Both               From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
Hardwicke                                                                                                 4-
Lane         West      odd      Entire length and circles                                   O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Harms Hill   North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          1-
Harness Lane East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Harpers                                                                                                   4-
Ferry Drive  North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Harvey Quast                                                                                              4-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Hazel                  even     Highridge Avenue to end                                     O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
East                   odd      Highridge Avenue to Louise                                  O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Hearthstone                                                                                               1-
Court        N/W       odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Heights                                                                                                   1-
Blvd.        Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          11-
                                                                                                          26-
Hemlock      East      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-36-85, O-   85,
Court                                                                                       20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Heritage               even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                No parking here to corner at 8749 Heritage Drive 38' aouth                10-
                       odd      of Boone Valley Drive                                       O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Highridge                                                                                                 1-
Avenue       South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Hillcrest                                                                                                 2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Hillside                                                                                                  1-
Drive        East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                       odd      No parking here to corner 20 ft. south of N. Vivian         O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Hilltop                even     Entire length & circle                                      O-24-98       12-
Court                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Hitching     West      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98,O-12- 98,
Post Place                                                                                  04            4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
Holiday      Both               Entire length in city                                       O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
Hollywood                                                                                                 2-
Drive        East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Homestead                                                                                                 1-
Drive        East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Honeysuckle                                                                                               1-
Drive        West      even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
             East      odd      No parking here to corner from #101 to Shenandoah           O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                       odd      In curve from #113 to #117                                  O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Honeysuckle  Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98, O-   98,
Terrace                                                                                     20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Hope Trail   North     even     Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Hopeful Road Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Hunterallen                                                                                               10-
Drive        West      odd      Entire length and circles                                   O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Iberville                                                                                                 12-
Court        East               Entire length and circle                                    O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Imperial               odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Court                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          05
Investment                                                                                  O-32-05 O-20- 10-
Way          Both               Entire length                                               11 O-23-22    25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          11-
                                                                                                          15-
                                                                                                          22
Isaac Lane   West      odd      Entire length and cul de sac                                O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Jackson                                                                                                   10-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          10-
Jackson Rue  South     odd      Entire length and circles                                   O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Jameson Lane Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
Jo Ann Drive South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
             North     odd      From 9-11 a.m. on school days                               O-2-97, O-20- 97,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Joshua Court East      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Julia Avenue South     odd      From beginning to end and circls                            O-4-85,       26-
                                                                                                          85,
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Juniper Lane East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-24-98, O-   98,
                                                                                            20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                       odd      No parking here to corner 50 ft. south to Tamarack Lane     O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Kathryn                                                                                                   2-
Avenue       East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Kelley Drive N/E       odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          10-
                       even     No parking here to corner 100' from Hopeful Church Road     O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Kennedy                                                                                                   2-
Court        East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Kentaboo     Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Kernal Drive East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85, O-20- 85,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Khyler Drive Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          10-
Kiley Place  Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
King Drive   Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
La Cresta    Both               From Jameson to US 42                                       O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          2-
             West      even     Entire length in city limits                                O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Lafitte                                                                                                   4-
Court        South     even     Entire length and circles                                   O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Lago Mar                                                                                                  12-
Court        West      odd      Entire length and circles                                   O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Lake Drive             even     Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Lakeshore                                                                                                 1-
Drive                  even     Inner side of loop                                          O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                No parking here to corner 38' from Hopeful Road (south                    12-
                                intersection), and 38' from Achates Avenue at #17. Between  O-24-98 O-20- 8-98
                       odd      signs in bend at #23. During school days 7 a.m.-4 p.m., #9  11            10-
                                - #13.                                                                    25-
                                                                                                          11
Lapalco                                                                                                   10-
Court        North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Larch Court            even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97, O-20- 97,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Larkspur                                                                                                  12-
Court                  both     Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Lawrence               even     No parking here to corner from driveway @ #66 Circle        O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          2-
             South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Lee Street   North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Lendale                                                                                                   1-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
                                                                                                          85,
Lexington                                                                                   O-4-85, O-32- 12-
Avenue       East      even     Dixie Highway to Virginia Avenue                            05            20-
                                                                                            O-21-19       05
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          20-
             Both               From Virginia Avenue to dead end                            O-32-05       05
                                                                                            O-21-19       12-
                                                                                                          17-
                                                                                                          19
Liberty                                                                                                   2-
Court        West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Lincoln      Both               Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Woods Drive                                                                                               8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Lloyd Avenue North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                       even     No parking here to corner from #2 to Girard                 O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                       even     No parking 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on school days                 O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Locust       East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
                                                                                                          11-
Locust Lane  West      odd      Entire length and turnaround                                O-23-22       15-
                                                                                                          22
Los Alos                                                                                                  10-
Court        East      even     Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
Louise Court N/E       odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
             South     even     In curve from #6586 to #6588                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
Lucas Street South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Lynn Street  West      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
Main Street  Both               From intersection of U.S. 25/U.S. 42 to Girard St.          O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
             Both               From Girard St. to 215/216 Main Street 1 hour parking       O-24-98       12-
                                permitted only                                                            8-98
                                                                                                          1-
             Both               From 215/216 to Turfway Road                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          10-
Mall Road    Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Mallard                                                                                                   2-
Drive        North     odd      Entire length                                               O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Manassas     North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98, O-   98,
Drive                                                                                       12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
Manderlay                                                                                                 2-
Drive        North     even     Entire length in city limits                                O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
Marais Drive West      odd      Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Maranatha                                                                                                 1-
Court        East               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Mardi Gras                                                                                                10-
Way          West      odd      Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Meadow Lane  North     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Meadow View            odd      Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
Meadow Creek East      odd      Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
Meadow Wood                                                                                               1-
Drive        West      even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Meijer Drive Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          10-
Mel's Lane   Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Merchants    Both               Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Street                                                                                                    8-98
Merravay                                                                                                  2-
Drive        E/N       odd      Entire length in city limits                                O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          4-
Mill Way     South     odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Mimosa Trail Both               Entire length                                               O-12-04, O-   04,
                                                                                            32-05         12-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          05
Miriam Drive           odd      Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Mistflower                                                                                                12-
Lane         Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Mollie Court South     odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Montgomery                                                                                                2-
Street       Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Morgan's                                                                                                  10-
Trace        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Morris       South     odd      Entire length in city                                       O-24-98       12-
Street                                                                                                    8-98
Mossy Ridge                                                                                               4-
Court        North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          2-
New                                                                                                       26-
Buffington   Both               Entire length in city                                       O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Road                                                                                        11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
New Uri      Both               No parking here to corner (East Entrance)                   O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                       even     Inner side of loop                                          O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Niblack                                                                                                   2-
Memorial     Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
Drive                                                                                                     85
Nicholas                                                                                                  2-
Street       West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
North                                                                                                     1-
Dilcrest     S/W       odd      Entire length in city limits and circle                     O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
             Both               From 8214 to 8218 in curve
             Both               No parking here to corner from 30 ft. W. of Dilcrest        O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Northfield                                                                                                1-
Dr.          North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Nottoway                                                                                                  4-
Court        Northeast even     Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Oak Ridge                                                                                                 2-
Court        North     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Oakwood                                                                                                   1-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Oblique                                                                                                   10-
Street       North     even     Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
             South     odd      No parking here to corner from 13 Oblique Street entrance
                                to Kentucky Route 18
Oceanage     East/                                                                                        12-
Drive        South     odd      Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Old Toll     Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97 O-20-  97
Road                                                                                        11            O-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
Old U.S. 42  Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Old World    East      even     Entire length                                               O-12-04 O-20- 04
Court                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Orchard                                                                                                   2-
Drive        East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Orleans                                                                                                   4-
Boulevard    Both               From beginning to end and traffic circle                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          10-
Ormond Drive North     even     Entire length and circles                                   O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Partridge                                                                                                 2-
Circle       East      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Pat Day                                                                                                   1-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Patricia                        No parking here to corner – driveway at #37 to St. Jude's O-24-98       12-
Street                          Circle                                                                    8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
             S/E       odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97, O-20- 97,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Periwinkle                                                                                                12-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Pheasant     East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Drive                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Pinehurst                                                                                                 2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Pinnacle                                                                                                  12-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Plantation                                                                                                2-
Drive        Both               Entire length of public roadway (concrete)                  O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Planters     Both               From Wetherington Blvd. to Gettysburg Lane                  O-12-04, O-   04,
Trail                                                                                       12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          4-
             North              From Gettysburg Lane to city limit                          O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Plaza                                                                                                     2-
Boulevard    Both               Entire length                                               O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Portage                                                                                                   10-
Trail        Both               entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Preakness                                                                                                 1-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Price Pike   Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Quail Court  North     even     From beginning to end & circle                              O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Quinn Drive  South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
R.A. Jones                                                                                                1-
Dr.          Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Raintree               odd      Outer side of loop                                          O-24-98, O-   98,
Road                                                                                        20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Ra Jean                                                                                                   2-
Drive        North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          4-
Rampart Way  Both               Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Ravenswood                                                                                                2-
Drive        East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Rebel Drive  Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Red Cedar                                                                                                 11-
Court        North     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-36-85       26-
                                                                                                          85
Red Clover                                                                                                1-
Ct.          South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Richard                                                                                                   1-
Street       East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Richman Road Both               Entire length, both sections                                O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Ridgecrest   West      even     Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Ridge View   South     even     Entire length                                               O-24-98, O-   98,
Ave.                                                                                        20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Ridgeway                                                                                                  2-
Avenue       South     even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Riehl Drive  Both               Entire length and circle of public roadway (concrete)       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Roberta                                                                                                   1-
Avenue       S/W       odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
Rogers Lane  North     odd      Entire length                                               O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
Rose Avenue  East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Rosebrook                                                                                                 1-
Drive                  even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Rosetta                                                                                                   2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Running                                                                                                   1-
Creek Drive  South     odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Russell                                                                                                   2-
Street       West      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Rye Court    West      odd      Entire length and Circle                                    O-2-97; O-32- 97,
                                                                                            05            12-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          05
Safeway                                                                                                   1-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
St. Charles                                                                                               4-
Circle       Both               From Marais Drive to Old World Court                        O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
St. Charles                                                                                               4-
Circle                 odd      Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Saint Jude's Both               From Dixie to Locust                                        O-24-98       12-
Circle                                                                                                    8-98
St. Jude's             even     Inner side of loop - From beginning to end                  O-24-98       12-
Circle                                                                                                    8-98
St. Louis                                                                                                 4-
Boulevard    Both               From Longbranch Road to Rampart Way                         O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          4-
             South     even     From Rampart Way to end and circle                          O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
St. Philip                                                                                                10-
Court        West      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Saddlebrook                                                                                               1-
Lane         Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Sanders                                                                                                   2-
Drive        West      odd      Entire length in city limits                                O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Sandstone    North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Ct.                                                                                         11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
Saratoga Way North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Sassafrass   West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Lane                                                                                        11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Savannah                                                                                                  4-
Lakes Drive  North     even     Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          12-
Scarlet Way  Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Schira Court South              From beginning to end and circle. No parking here to corner O-24-98, O-   98,
             North              from 84 Circle Drive driveway to Circle Drive               20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Scott Drive  West      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          2-
Sebree Drive Both               From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Seligman                                                                                                  10-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Shadowridge  West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Court                                                                                                     8-98
Shaun                                                                                                     12-
Alexander    Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
Way                                                                                                       19
Shelby                                                                                                    1-
Street       Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Shenandoah                                                                                                2-
Drive        North     even     Entire length of public roadway                             O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          10-
Shiloh Court East               Entire length and circle                                    O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Shortridge                                                                                                1-
Ct.          West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          10-
Skeets Way   Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Sky View Dr. South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
Smith Street North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                       odd      No parking here to corner 100' from Dixie Highway           O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Spicewood                                                                                                 2-
Avenue       East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                       odd      No parking here to corner 25 ft. south of Highridge         O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
Spiral Blvd. Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Spiral Drive Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
Spruce Drive Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Steeplebush            even     Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Dr.                                                                                                       8-98
Steilen                                                                                                   2-
Drive        Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Stonegate                                                                                                 1-
Drive        North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Stoneridge                                                                                                1-
Lane         North     even     From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Stonewall                                                                                                 10-
Trail        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Stratford                                                                                                 1-
Court        East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          10-
             West      odd      In front of community mailbox between 8403 & 8407           O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Stringtown                                                                                                10-
Park                            In circle                                                   O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Summer Place South     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85, O-20- 85,
                                                                                            11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12-
Sumter Ridge North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Sunrise                                                                                                   12-
Drive        North              Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Sunnybrook                                                                                                10-
Drive        East      odd      Entire length within city limits and circle                 O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Surfwood     North     odd      From Hopeful Road to end & circle                           O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
             Both               No parking from Hopeful Road to Hopeful Church Road         O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Surrey Court West      odd      From beginning to end and circle. No parking here to corner O-2-97, O-12- 97,
                                from driveway @ #100                                        04            4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          10-
Susie Drive            odd      Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Sussex Drive Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
Suzzanne Way North     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Sweet Briar                                                                                               1-
Avenue       Both               From KY. 18 to Price Pike                                   O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Sweet Briar  North     even     From Price Pike to dead end and in circle                   O-2-97, O-12- 97,
Avenue                                                                                      04            4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
             South     odd      Between #1 and #5                                           O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Sycamore                                                                                                  1-
Drive        Both               Entire length in city                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          4-
Tabor Court  West      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Tamarack               odd      Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
                                                                                                          2-
Tanners Lane Both               From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
Taramore     Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
Tattersall                                                                                                1-
Lane         E/N       even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Tealwood     South     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Court                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
Ted                                                                                                       12-
Bushelman    Both               Entire length                                               O-21-19       17-
Blvd.                                                                                                     19
                                                                                                          2-
Tee Street   East      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Terrace                                                                                                   12-
Court        Both               Entire length                                               O-32-05       20-
                                                                                                          05
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Thomas       East      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-24-98, O-   98,
Street                                                                                      20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
             West      even     From 9-11 a.m. on school days                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Thorne Hill                                                                                               1-
Drive        West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Toulouse                                                                                                  12-
Drive        West      odd      Entire length and circle                                    O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Trace Drive  South     odd      Entire length & cul de sac                                  O-24-98, O-   98,
                                                                                            12-04         4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          4-
             North     even     From Wetherington Blvd. to Crimson Oak Drive                O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Trotters Way South     even     Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          4-
                                                                                                          27-
Tulane Court North     even     Entire length and cul-de-sac                                O-12-04, O-   04,
                                                                                            32-05         12-
                                                                                                          20-
                                                                                                          05
Twelve Oaks                                                                                               10-
Drive        Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Utz Drive    East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          10-
             West      odd      No parking her eto corner 27' from Coreta Drive             O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Valley       East               From Pleasant Valley Road to 8834 Valley Circle. From Boone O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Circle Drive                    Place to Boone Valley Road intersection with Heritage Drive 11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
             West      odd      From 8835 Valley Circle to Boone Place. No parking here to  O-4-85, O-20- 85,
                                corner of 8428 Pleasant Valley Rd. to Pleasant Valley Rd.   11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          2-
Valley Drive North     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Valley View  South     even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Drive                                                                                                     8-98
Vandercar                                                                                                 10-
Way          Both               Entire length                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Veterans                                                                                                  4-
Memorial     Both               Entire length                                               O-12-04       27-
Drive                                                                                                     04
Village                                                                                                   2-
Drive        East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          12-
             West      odd      Bend in front of 8431 and bend between 8443 and 8445        O-21-19       17-
                                                                                                          19
Virginia                                                                                                  2-
Avenue       South     odd      Entire length in city limits                                O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Vivian Drive           odd      Entire length                                               O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Wallace                                                                                                   2-
Avenue       East      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
Walnut Court West      odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                          26-
Walnut Creek West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-4-85, O-20- 85,
Drive                                                                                       11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          10-
             East      odd      From 7703 Walnut Creek Drive to Banklick St.                O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Waverly                                                                                                   4-
Drive        Northeast even     Entire length and circles                                   O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
                                                                                                          12-
                                                                                                          8-
Wellington             even     No parking here to corner 50 ft. from Pleasant Valley and   O-24-98, O-   98,
Dr.                             38' from Collingwood Court in front of #22                  20-11         10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          1-
             South     odd      From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                          2-
Wells Street West      even     From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
West                                                                                                      1-
Cobblestone  South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-2-97        14-
Court                                                                                                     97
W. Dilcrest  West      even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
Westminster                                                                                               2-
Court        South     odd      From beginning to end and circle                            O-3-86        11-
                                                                                                          86
Wetherington Both               Entire length in city limits                                O-24-98       12-
Blvd.                                                                                                     8-98
William                                                                                                   1-
Haines Dr.   Both               Entire length                                               O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Wittshire                                                                                                 4-
Way          Both               From beginning to end                                       O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Wintergreen  North     even     From beginning to end and circle                            O-24-98       12-
Court                                                                                                     8-98
Windfield    East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Way                                                                                                       8-98
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Winthrop               odd      Inner side of loop from #8537 Quinn to #8574 Wintergreen    O-2-97, O-20- 97,
Circle                                                                                      11            10-
                                                                                                          25-
                                                                                                          11
                       even     From #8548 Winthrop to $8568 Winthrop
Winthrop     East      even     Entire length and circle                                    O-24-98       12-
Place                                                                                                     8-98
Wisteria                                                                                                  4-
Court        East      even     Entire length and cul de sac                                O-12-04       27-
                                                                                                          04
Woodland     West      odd      From beginning to end & circle                              O-24-98       12-
Avenue                                                                                                    8-98
                                No parking here to corner from entrance/exit of 7699 U.S.                 10-
             East      even     42 to U.S. 42                                               O-20-11       25-
                                                                                                          11
Woodspoint                                                                                                1-
Dr.          Both               From beginning to end                                       O-2-97        14-
                                                                                                          97
Yealey Drive           even     No parking here to corner in front of #20 Yealey Drive      O-24-98       12-
                                                                                                          8-98
                                                                                                          2-
             West      odd      From beginning to end                                       O-4-85        26-
                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                          14-
Youell       West      even     From beginning to end. No parking here to corner - 57 feet  O-2-97, O-12- 97,
Street                          from centerline of Main Street                              04            4-
                                                                                                          27-
                                                                                                          04
 
Cross-reference:
   
See Violation; Citation and Impoundment, §§ 70.20 - 70.29
SCHEDULE II. FIRE LANES.
(A)   Parking is prohibited in the following designated business fire lanes.
Location Ord. No. Date
Location                        Ord. No. Date
Amerisuites                     O-24-98  12-8-98
Ashley Quarters                 O-24-98  12-8-98
Best Buy                        O-24-98  12-8-98
Best Western Motel              O-24-98  12-8-98
Big Lots                        O-2-97   1-14-97
Bigg's                          O-2-97   1-14-97
Bob Evans Restaurant            O-4-85   2-26-85
Boone County Library            O-4-85   2-26-85
Boone County High School        O-2-97   1-14-97
Builders Square                 O-2-97   1-14-97
Chuck E. Cheese                 O-4-85   2-26-85
Circuit City                    O-2-97   1-14-97
Collins School                  O-2-97   1-14-97
Colonial Heights                O-2-97   1-14-97
Commonwealth Hilton             O-2-97   1-14-97
Cross Country Inn               O-2-97   1-14-97
Elseden Building                O-4-85   2-26-85
Erpenbeck School                O-24-98  12-8-98
Evergreen Plaza                 O-2-97   1-14-97
Extended Stay America           O-24-98  12-8-98
Florence Center                 O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Discount Center        O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Elementary             O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Estates                O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Mall                   O-4-85   2-26-85
Florence Medical Center         O-4-85   2-26-85
Florence Mini Center            O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Park Care Center       O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Park Office            O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Plaza                  O-2-97   1-14-97
Florence Square                 O-4-85   2-26-85
Franks Nursery                  O-24-98  12-8-98
Fuller Square                   O-2-97   1-14-97
Fundome                         O-2-97   1-14-97
Furniture Fair                  O-24-98  12-8-98
Furrows                         O-2-97   1-14-97
Gallenstein Complex             O-4-85   2-26-85
Hampton Inn                     O-2-97   1-14-97
Heritage School                 O-24-98  12-8-98
Holiday Inn                     O-2-97   1-14-97
Home Depot                      O-24-98  12-8-98
Home Quarters                   O-2-97   1-14-97
Kmart                           O-2-97   1-14-97
Kohls                           O-2-97   1-14-97
Lowes                           O-24-98  12-8-98
Mall Road Limited               O-4-85   2-26-85
Mall Road Square                O-4-85   2-26-85
Mall Road Center                O-2-97   1-14-97
Media Play                      O-2-97   1-14-97
Meijer Square                   O-2-97   1-14-97
Mike Albert Leasing             O-2-97   1-14-97
Ockerman Schools                O-2-97   1-14-97
Office Max                      O-2-97   1-14-97
Pep Boys                        O-2-97   1-14-97
Perkins Restaurant              O-2-97   1-14-97
Ra Jones School                 O-24-98  12-8-98
Ra Jones School                 O-2-97   1-14-97
Ramada Inn                      O-2-97   1-14-97
Red Lobster                     O-2-97   1-14-97
Regal Cinemas                   O-2-97   1-14-97
Remkes                          O-2-97   1-14-97
Revco Drugs                     O-2-97   1-14-97
Sam's                           O-2-97   1-14-97
St. Luke Hospital               O-2-97   1-14-97
St. Paul School                 O-24-98  12-8-98
Sofa Express                    O-24-98  12-8-98
Studio Plus                     O-24-98  12-8-98
Sun TV                          O-2-97   1-14-97
Swallens                        O-2-97   1-14-97
Thriftway Foods                 O-4-85   2-26-85
Turfway Town Center             O-2-97   1-14-97
Turfway Retail Center           O-2-97   1-14-97
Turfway Ridge Office            O-2-97   1-14-97
United Methodist Church Complex O-24-98  12-8-98
Victory Baptist Church          O-24-98  12-8-98
Village At The Mall             O-2-97   1-14-97
Walmart                         O-2-97   1-14-97
Windridge Apts.                 O-2-97   1-14-97
Winn Dixie                      O-2-97   1-14-97
Woodspoint Nursing Home         O-2-97   1-14-97
YMCA                            O-24-98  12-8-98
Yealey School                   O-2-97   1-14-97
Zavo's Teen Club                O-24-98  12-8-98
 
Penalty, see §§
70.20 -
70.29
   (B)   Parking is prohibited in the following designated street fire lanes.
Location Number Ord.No Date
Location               Number                                   Ord.No  Date
Bankers Street         8731, 8800/8880                          O-12-04 4-27-04
                       6821, 6895, 6901-6909, 6920, 6975, 7056,
Burlington Pike        7505, 8001, 8032, 8040, 8053-8057, 8100, O-12-04 4-27-04
                       8127, 8137
Carole Lane            7500                                     O-12-04 4-27-04
Center Street          99-103                                   O-12-04 4-27-04
Commerce Drive         7630, 7810, 7821                         O-12-04 4-27-04
Connector Drive        7800-7980, 8045-8145                     O-12-04 4-27-04
Dixie Highway          7301, 7621, 7791                         O-12-04 4-27-04
Dream Street           7914, 7921                               O-12-04 4-27-04
Ewing Boulevard        7711                                     O-12-04 4-27-04
Foltz Drive            7483, 7501                               O-12-04 4-27-04
Hansel                 1100, 1030-1060, 1060, 1335, 1336        O-12-04 4-27-04
Heights Boulevard      828, 832                                 O-12-04 4-27-04
Holiday Place          8050                                     O-12-04 4-27-04
Hopeful Road           6900-6910                                O-12-04 4-27-04
                       1050, 4748, 4756, 4770, 4800, 4868,
Houston Road           4874, 4880 4911, 4931, 4949, 4951-4999   O-12-04 4-27-04
                       4953, 4977-7999, 4990 4999, 5001, 5015
Highway 42             7425, 7501, 7915, 8020, 8117, 8300       O-12-04 4-27-04
Lloyd                  151-167                                  O-12-04 4-27-04
Main Street            213, 231                                 O-12-04 4-27-04
                       7533, 7541-7551, 7600 7601, 7606, 7629,
Mall Road              7635, 7636, 7659, 7685, 7713, 7747,      O-12-04 4-27-04
                       7751-7755, 8125, 8150-8188
Meijer Drive           100, 200, 300, 600                       O-12-04 4-27-04
Merchants Street       5880, 5985, 5992, 5993                   O-12-04 4-27-04
Mt. Zion Road          411, 428, 430, 450                       O-12-04 4-27-04
Old Toll Road          0                                        O-12-04 4-27-04
Spiral Drive           5-11, 15, 16, 21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 29,    O-12-04 4-27-04
                       31, 55, 61-99
Spruce Drive           8000, 9000                               O-12-04 4-27-04
Steeplechase           7373                                     O-12-04 4-27-04
Thoroughbred Boulevard 7575                                     O-12-04 4-27-04
                       6821-6825, 7102-7112, 7120, 7269-7289,
Turfway Road           7300-7310, 7350, 7373, 7379, 7380, 7383, O-12-04 4-27-04
                       7388, 7393, 7399, 7414, 7434, 7454,
                       7484, 7500, 7650, 7659
Woodspoint Drive       7300, 7330, 7400, 7501, 7503 7570        O-12-04 4-27-04
Yealey Drive           10                                       O-12-04 4-27-04
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         Chapter
            
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
            
91.   ANIMALS
            
92.   RESERVED
            
93.   SPECIAL EVENTS
            
94.   ALARM SYSTEMS
            
95.   ANATOMICAL STUDIES
            
96.   MUNICIPAL PARKS
            
97.   LANDLORD AND TENANT CODE
            
98.   FIRE PREVENTION
            
99.   TREES
            
100.    CURFEW
            
101.    NOISE
            
102.   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Excavations
   
90.01   Application
   
90.02   Restoration of street
   
90.03   Bond required
Construction or Reconstruction
   
90.05   Requirements
   
90.06   Railroad crossing specifications
Driveways
   
90.10   Storm drainage pipes under driveways
Street Use
   
90.15   Use of heavy equipment
   
90.16   Littering
Sidewalks
   
90.20   Sidewalk repair policy
   
90.21   Dirt or debris
Skateboards
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Restrictions on operation
   
90.37   Violations; confiscation of skateboard
 
   
90.99   Penalty
  Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish street regulations, see KRS 85.140
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.01 APPLICATION.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to open any of the streets of the city through
excavating or digging, the person desiring to do the work shall make
application to the City Clerk for permission to do so, and shall accompany the
application with a map or diagram showing the place where the street is to be
opened, the width and depth of the excavation, the estimated length of time the
street is to remain open, and the name of the person whose property is to
benefit by reason of the opening excavation.
(Ord. O-183-44, passed 2-8-44)
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate street repairs, see KRS 85.140
§ 90.02 RESTORATION OF STREET.
   Every person making application for permission to open or excavate any
street in the city shall agree to restore the street to the same condition that
it was prior to the opening or excavation, to keep this portion of the street
in repair for a period of one year after the opening or excavation, and to
assume liability for any injuries sustained by any person, or damages to any
property, caused by reason of the opening or excavation.
(Ord. O-183-44, passed 2-8-44)
§ 90.03 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every application as set forth in §
90.01 shall be accompanied by a bond to the city in the amount of $1,000,
signed by the applicant and a surety company registered under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, or by two property owners, each of whom must have an
equity of at least $1,000 in real estate in Boone County, Kentucky over and
above all taxes, liens or mortgages, and homestead exemptions.
   (B)   This bond shall specify that in the event the city is sued because of
injuries sustained, or property damaged by reason of such excavation, the
principal and surety in the bond will, to the extent of $1,000, pay any
judgment obtained by the claimant, and will pay the court cost and attorneys'
fees incurred by the city.
(Ord. O-183-44, passed 2-8-44)
CONSTRUCTION OR RECONSTRUCTION
§ 90.05 REQUIREMENTS.
   For the construction or reconstruction of streets not covered by
Chapter 153 of this code, the provisions of Ordinance 295, adopted October 15,
1954, including all exhibits and attachments thereto, are adopted by reference
and incorporated as a part of this code as if fully set out herein.
(Am. Ord. O-28-77, passed 9-13-77)
§ 90.06 RAILROAD CROSSING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The city prescribes and adopts, as its minimum specifications for the
construction of railroad crossings in the city, the flangeguard, angle-type
crossing with concrete as shown on Figure l.
   (B)   Hereafter, all railroad crossings constructed in the city shall, both
as to design and materials used in construction, conform to the specifications
shown on Figure 1 as follows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b4be239f5b12ee49dca84975e751de428d9af07f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5557.gif]
 
(Ord. O-47-81, passed 10-27-81)
Penalty, see § 90.99
DRIVEWAYS
§ 90.10 STORM DRAINAGE PIPES UNDER DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The minimum requirements for storm drainage entrance pipes under
driveways connecting with the various streets shall be vitrified pipe of
culvert strength type or corrugated metal or reinforced concrete pipe. No
entrance pipe shall have an inside diameter of less than ten inches.
   (B)   Before storm drainage entrance pipes are placed under any driveway, a
permit shall be obtained from the City Council. Such work shall proceed under
the direction of the City Engineer. At the discretion of the City Council, any
entrance pipe installed contrary to the provisions of this section may be
ordered removed at the cost of the owner of the abutting property.
(Ord. O-245-52, passed 10-23-52)
STREET USE
§ 90.15 USE OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate
any bulldozer or other vehicle equipped with metal tracks or treads or any
vehicle equipped with metal wheels fitted with lugs on the streets of the city
so that the tracks, treads, or wheels with lugs are in contact with pavement of
the streets.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than $400
or more than $500 for each conviction. Each incident of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-15-77, passed 5-10-77)
Statutory reference:
   Chains and lugs on wheels, see KRS 189.190
   Load limits, see KRS 189.221 and 189.222
§ 90.16 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall litter or cause to be placed on
any city street or public way of the city any litter, dirt, trash, rubbish,
refuse, mud, soil, or similar debris or allow or permit the above to remain on
any city street or public way of the city for more than 12 hours without
removing it and cleaning and clearing the street or public way so that it is
restored to its original condition prior to the littering.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of violating this section
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day that the
violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. O-336A-56, passed 5-22-56; Am. Ord. O-21-79, passed 8-14-79)
Cross-reference:
   Criminal littering, see § 131.04
Statutory reference:
   Litter control, see KRS 224.905 through 244.970
SIDEWALKS
§ 90.20 SIDEWALK REPAIR POLICY.
Editor's Note: The following is a policy statement only and has not been
adopted as an ordinance.
   The Administrative Committee recommends that the city assume the duty to
make emergency repairs to sidewalks according to the following policy:
   (A)   The city would budget approximately $5,000 per year for emergency
sidewalk repair.
   (B)   The city would repair sidewalks which have become genuinely hazardous
to pedestrians by reason of their disrepair.
   (C)   The repair or replacement of sidewalks which are not in a hazardous
condition would be the responsibility of the adjacent property owner, but such
repair or reconstruction would have to be done according to city
specifications.
   (D)   This policy would apply only to sidewalks within the boundaries of
city rights-of-way and the repair or replacement of all sidewalks on private
property would be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Policy statement of 7-23-85)
§ 90.21 DIRT OR DEBRIS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupants of lots abutting on sidewalks
to keep the sidewalks in front of the property or lots clean and free from
rubbish and dirt, whether they are washed by water flooding the sidewalks or
from any other source. Should filth accumulate on the sidewalks of the city and
the owner or occupant of the lot abutting the sidewalk at such place or places
fail to remove the filth, it shall be the duty of the city to notify the owner
in writing, setting forth the objectionable condition of the sidewalk. If the
owner or occupants fail to remove the dirt or filth within three days from the
date of notice, he or they shall be fined as provided in §
90.99.
(Ord. O-38-12, passed 8-5-12)
Penalty, see § 90.99
SKATEBOARDS
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PERSON." Any natural person, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
unincorporated association of natural persons, or any combination thereof.
   “SCOOTER.” Any low vehicle to which two wheels are attached one in front of
the other, and a trad or footboard between them which is propelled by pushing
against the ground. A scooter may include a saddle or seat and may or may not
be motorized.
   "SKATEBOARD." Any board or platform to which there is attached wheels for
movement thereof by either gravity or the muscular power of someone standing
upon the board or platform and which has no mechanism or other device with
which to steer or control the movement or direction of the board or platform.
(Ord. O-12-90, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 90.36 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   No person shall cause, permit, allow, encourage or engage in any of the
following operations of a skateboard or scooter within the city.
   (A)   The operation of a skateboard or scooter upon, into or within the
following streets or highways:
      Dream Street
      Ewing Boulevard
      Hopeful Church Road
      Hopeful Road
      Houston Road
      Kentucky 18
      Main Street
      Mall Road
      Tanners Lane
      Turfway Road
      U.S. 25
      U.S. 42
      Weaver Road
   (B)   The operation of a skateboard or scooter upon any sidewalk without
yielding the right-of-way to pedestrians thereon.
   (C)   The construction of any skateboard or scooter ramp upon a street,
highway or sidewalk.
   (D)    (1) No person shall operate a skateboard or scooter on any private
property within the city unless the person has obtained the written consent of
the owner or owners of the private property; and unless the person operating
the skateboard or the scooter has in his or her possession at the time of
operation the written consent of the owner or owners of the private property on
which he or she is operating the skateboard or the scooter.
      (2)   The written consent described in division (D)(1) above shall grant
to the person named therein permission to operate a skateboard or the scooter
on the property described in the consent. No more than one person shall be
named as the permittee on a written consent. A written consent shall be invalid
unless the name of the permittee is written therein. A written consent shall
not be transferable.
      (3) A person who is the owner of private property in the city, his or her
spouse, dependent children, or tenants and their dependent children who reside
upon the property shall, without procuring the written consent described in
division (D)(1) above, have the right to operate a skateboard or scooter on
private property of which they are bona fide owners, or the spouse or dependent
children of the owners, or tenants or dependent children of tenants who reside
upon the property.
(Ord. O-12-90, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.37 VIOLATIONS; CONFISCATION OF SKATEBOARD.
   (A)   Any peace officer who issues a citation for violation of this
subchapter shall confiscate the skateboard or scooter used in the violation and
place it in the police property room.
   (B)   The skateboard or scooter may be returned to the violator or to a
parent or guardian of the violator, if the violator is a minor, after the
following periods of time:
      (1)   After 30 days for a first violator of this subchapter.
      (2)   If any person commits a subsequent violation of this subchapter,
the skateboard used by such person in the violation shall be forfeited to the
city and disposed of in the manner prescribed by law for forfeited property.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting
the lawful use of any device, whether skateboard or scooter, which has been
recommended or prescribed for a person by a licensed physician to enable or
assist in the ambulation of that person.
(Ord. 0-12-90, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   All violations of this chapter are designated as civil offenses and shall be
enforced by the imposition of a civil fine not to exceed $500 for each
violation. The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue
remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. O-12-04, passed 4-27-04
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Commercial establishments to post emergency names and numbers
Provisions Concerning All Animals
   
91.15   Animals disturbing the peace
   
91.16   Animals to be under control
   
91.17   Inhumane or improper treatment
Humane Societies
   
91.30   Standards and licensing
Bees
   
91.40   Bees
Wild and Exotic Animals
   
91.50   Wild and exotic animals prohibited
Dogs
   
91.60   Licensing
   
91.61   Rabies vaccination
Vicious Animals
   
91.75   Definitions
   
91.76   Confinement
   
91.77   Leash and muzzle
   
91.78   Signs
   
91.79   Insurance
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
91.85   Definition
   
91.86   Licensing provisions
   
91.87   Minimum standards
   
91.88   Inspections
   
91.89   License revocation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate keeping of animals, see KRS 85.180
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   "ABANDON." Any animal left more than 24 hours without a person checking on
the condition of the animal(s) and providing food and water. Any animal left on
private property without the owner's consent or deserted or dumped on public
property or roadways.
   "ANIMAL." Any live vertebrate creature.
   "ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER." Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Control who is qualified to perform duties under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky and the City of Florence, Kentucky. An animal control officer shall
be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of animal control only.
   "ANIMAL SHELTER." Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this ordinance.
   "COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT." Any pet shop, boarding or breeding
kennel, grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus,
performing animal exhibit or any person engaged in the business of breeding,
buying, or selling at retail or wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   "DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL." The person appointed by the Judge/Executive
and approved by the Fiscal Court to the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   "DIRECTOR OF HUMANE SERVICES." Director of the Boone County Animal Shelter,
as appointed by the Boone County Judge/Executive and approved by the Boone
County Fiscal Court.
   "DAY." For the purposes of this ordinance, a 24 hour period shall constitute
a day.
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL." Animals as are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed, or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   "EXOTIC ANIMAL." Any animal not indigenous to the United States and not
ordinarily tame and which is by nature an animal that lives apart from human
beings.
   "HUMANE SOCIETY." Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   "IMPOUNDED." Having been received into the custody of Animal Control, or any
authorized representative thereof.
   "LIVESTOCK." Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, emus, ostriches, horses or any
other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, ratite or equine species.
   "OWNER." Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any entity owning,
keeping, harboring, or sheltering one or more animals.
   "PERSON." All natural persons, partnerships, firms, associations,
governmental bodies, agencies and other entities.
   "PET." A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   "PROPER QUARANTINE." Confinement to a secure enclosure which shall not
permit the animal to come in contact with another animal or person, except the
owner or caregiver, for a period of ten days.
   "PUBLIC NUISANCE." Any animal or animals which:
      (l)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (4)   Damages public or private property;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive continuous or untimely manner;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions; or
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner.
   "QUALIFIED PERSON." Any person granted a permit by the Kentucky Department
of Human Resources to vaccinate his or her own animal against rabies.
   "REASONABLE GROOMING." To maintain an animal's coat to prevent conditions
which inhibit normal walking or eliminating body waste, or which are medically
harmful to the animal.
   "RESTRAINT." Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control
the movement of the animal or secured by a leash or chain. An animal shall be
deemed to be restrained if it remains on the premises of its owner or if it is
accompanied by a responsible person and is under that person's control.
   "RUNNING AT LARGE." Any animal that is off the property of the owner,
custodian, possessor or harborer and is not restrained. Except that a hound or
other hunting dog which has been released from restraint for hunting purposes
shall be deemed to be under reasonable control of its owner or handler while
engaged in or returning from hunting, and, if the hunting dog becomes
temporarily lost from a pack or wanders from actual control or sight of its
owner or handler it shall not be deemed to be a violation.
   "STRAY." Any animal running at large.
   "VETERINARIAN." One licensed and qualified to treat diseases and injuries of
the animal.
   "VETERINARY HOSPITAL." Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
injuries of the animal.
   "VICIOUS ANIMAL."
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals due to a known propensity to endanger life by an unprovoked
assault or bite which resulted in serious bodily harm;
      (2)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places;
      (3)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals;
      (4)   Any animal which bites multiple times or to the extent of causing
severe injury and assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic
animals;
      (5)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals.
      (6)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (7)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it; or
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person; or
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal.
(Ord. 0-4-86, passed 2-ll-86; Am. Ord. 0-30-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-14-
10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city hereby designates the Director of Animal Control and all officers
of Animal Control as the proper persons to exercise authority under this
ordinance within the city. This power and authority is as follows:
   (A)   The Director and all officers of Animal Control shall have the powers
of a peace officer for the purpose of enforcing animal control laws and
ordinances in the city, if they otherwise qualify as a peace officer under the
laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All officers and agents of Animal Control shall comply with KRS
61.300.
   (C)   All animals of any age, running at large as defined in this ordinance
and found in the city may be picked up by Animal Control and impounded in the
animal shelter. All animals of any age which have bitten or scratched a human
being and which cannot be properly quarantined or found not properly
quarantined may be picked up by Animal Control and impounded in the animal
shelter for any applicable quarantine period. A Law Enforcement Officer or
Animal Control Officer may order any animal which has bitten or scratched a
human being to be quarantined at the animal shelter if the officer has reason
to believe such animal is vicious or may pose a threat to the safety of the
community. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period, the
owner shall be responsible for a reasonable fee for board, administration and
medical attention during the impoundment.
   (D)   Any animal required to be licensed but found unlicensed or any animal,
except cats, whose owner is unknown, shall be impounded for a minimum period of
five days unless it is earlier claimed by its owner. If the animal is not
claimed by its owner within five days of impoundment, the animal may then be
offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the Director of
Animal Control. Any person claiming or reclaiming an animal pursuant to this
section shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration, and medical
attention for the animal during impoundment and obtain proper licensing for
such animal, if applicable, from Animal Control. Animal Control shall make
reasonable efforts to locate and inform the owner of any animal that said
animal has been impounded.
   (E)   Any cat impounded in the animal shelter shall be held for a minimum of
three days unless it is earlier claimed by its owner. If the animal is not
claimed by its owner within three days of impoundment the animal may then be
offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the Director of
Animal Control. Any person claiming or reclaiming an animal pursuant to this
section shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration and medical
attention for such animal during impoundment.
   (F)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known is impounded
in the animal shelter, Animal Control shall notify the owner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, within three business days of impoundment. If the
certified mail is returned undeliverable, the animal shall be held a minimum of
14 days from the date of impoundment before the animal may be adopted or
euthanized at the discretion of the Director of Animal Control.
   (G)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within ten days of the
receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner is
known which is not reclaimed by its owner within ten days of receipt of the
notice of impoundment may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at
the discretion of the Director of Animal Control. Any person claiming or
reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for
board, administration and medical attention during the impoundment.
   (H)   An Animal Control Officer may choose to issue a misdemeanor notice in
lieu of a uniform citation. The misdemeanor notice will stipulate the violation
(s) observed, associated fee and compliance date. The misdemeanor notice shall
allow up to but not exceed seven days to correct the violation. Should the
violation not be corrected within the allotted time, then the notice shall
serve as a uniform citation and the violating party shall report to Boone
County District Court at the designated court date and time. If the violation
is serious in nature the Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation.
All associated fees shall be paid to the Boone County Animal Shelter. Fifty
percent of the violation fees shall be used to fund the Spay/Neuter Assistance
Program.
   (I)   Any animal observed by a Law Enforcement Officer or Animal Control
Officer to be in immediate danger may be removed from such situation by the
quickest and most reasonable means available.
   (J)   In the event that any Law Enforcement Officer or Animal Control
Officer witnesses a vicious animal, as defined, the animal may be impounded and
the owner cited for violation of §
91.16. If the owner is cited and the animal impounded, the animal shall remain
in the custody of the animal shelter pending a decision by District Court
unless ownership is voluntarily relinquished to Animal Control.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to interfere with,
hinder, harass, or abuse an officer or individual authorized to enforce the
provisions of this ordinance.
   (L)   Any and all fees shall be set annually by the Director of Animal
Control, including but not limited to animal related license, adoption,
boarding, administration and violation fees.
(Ord. 0-4-86, passed 2-ll-86; Am. Ord. 0-30-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-14-
10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.03 COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS TO POST EMERGENCY NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   Any person operating a commercial animal establishment shall post a visible
notice containing the names and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in
case of an emergency.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86)
PROVISIONS CONCERNING ALL ANIMALS
§ 91.15 ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city any animal which
by reason of frequent or continual noise or unsanitary conditions, disturbs the
peace, comfort, or health of the neighbors.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.16 ANIMALS TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him, to run at large. When livestock are found running at large,
Animal Control or the law enforcement officer shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner as soon as possible. If reasonably possible and feasible, the
owner of livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and
impoundment of the livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess a vicious animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is in season
(in heat, estrus) shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a
manner that such female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog except for
planned breeding.
(Ord. 0-l-1897, passed 3-l-1897; Am. Ord. 0-42-76, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 0-
30-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)   
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.17 INHUMANE OR IMPROPER TREATMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abuse
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Control from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing food, water, adequate shelter from the elements,
adequate space, reasonable grooming, ventilation, shade from the sun, proper
sanitation, care and medical attention.
   (D)   Any animal which is chained, tied or otherwise restrained shall be
provided no less than ten feet of chain, rope, and the like with a swivel
attached to prevent entanglement. Any animal restrained in such a manner that
the animal's chain, rope or the like allows the animal to leave its owner's or
keeper's property shall be deemed running at large.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. An Animal Control Officer or Law Enforcement
Officer shall rescue any animal confined in such a manner.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe, or attend any dog-fight, cock-fight, bull-fight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit or
other animal for the purpose of violating any provision of this ordinance.
   (H)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show shall be
permitted, in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through
the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (I)   No person(s) shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by an animal, provided
that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his own property,
common rat poison, mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (J)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal, shall immediately report the incident to Animal Control or any Law
Enforcement Officer.
   (K)   No person(s) shall give away any live animal as a prize or for
inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement
to enter into any business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except that it shall not be unlawful to give away small
fish, not to exceed four inches, as a prize.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to color, stain, dye or
otherwise change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored
animals for sale in the county, except that the mane and tail of an equine may
be changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing the equine.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two months in quantities less than six.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person to crop a dog's ears or tail,
except a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86; Am. Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
Penalty, see § 91.99
HUMANE SOCIETIES
§ 91.30 STANDARDS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All humane societies in the county shall be governed by the same
standards as commercial animal establishments as set forth in §
91.85 through
91.89, and shall be subject to any ordinance pertaining to commercial animal
establishments.
   (B)   Humane societies shall maintain records on each animal accepted or
housed, noting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of previous owner or person turning in the animal;
      (2)   Date received;
      (3)   Condition of the animal and any medical treatment;
      (4)   Date of adoption, redemption or euthanization;
      (5)   Name and address of new owner; and
      (6)   Verification of neutering.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
BEES
§ 91.40 BEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to own, keep,
raise, or harbor bees in the city in any manner so that the bees become a
public nuisance.
(Ord. O-24-79, passed 8-28-79; Am. Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
Penalty, see § 91.99
  Statutory reference:
   Apiaries, see KRS Ch. 252
WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.50 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet any wild or
exotic animal, not indigenous to the United States, except state and federal
conservation officers, licensed nuisance wildlife officers, and licensed
rehabilitators.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet any wild
animal native to the United States, except state and federal conservation
officers, licensed nuisance wildlife officers, and licensed rehabilitators,
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep any venomous
reptile.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
DOGS
§ 91.60 LICENSING.
   (A)   The owners of all dogs or those who harbor or maintain such animals in
the city, shall license and register their dog(s) with Animal Control, in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and the applicable Kentucky
Revised Statute. Licenses shall be issued by Animal Control at the animal
shelter during regular operating hours. Upon payment, the owner shall be issued
a certificate of registration and a license tag. Dog license tags must be
attached to the dogs collar and worn by the dog at all times.
   (B)   Any humane society which operates a fixed site in the county and takes
in stray or unwanted animals shall apply for a license with Animal Control. The
site shall be inspected prior to annual license renewal.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86; Am. Ord. O-30-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-14-
10, passed 12-14-10)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.61 RABIES VACCINATION.
   All dogs, cats, and ferrets, four months of age and older, shall be
vaccinated for rabies and re-vaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86; Am. Ord. O-30-88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. O-14-
10, passed 12-14-10)
Penalty, see § 91.99
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 91.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "OWNER." Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department
possessing or harboring or having the care or custody of an animal.
   "UNCONFINED VICIOUS ANIMAL." A vicious animal is "unconfined" if the animal
is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked
pen or structure upon the premises of the owner of the animal. The pen or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
into the ground no less than one foot. All such pens or structures must be
adequately lighted and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   "VICIOUS ANIMAL."
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animal; or
      (2)   Any animal which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has
attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of animal fighting, or any animal trained for animal fighting.
(Ord. O-50-87, passed 1-12-88)
§ 91.76 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer or permit the animal to go
unconfined.
(Ord. O-50-87, passed 1-12-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.77 LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer or permit the animal to go
beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal is securely muzzled and
restrained by a chain or leash, and under the physical restraint of a person.
The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal
or interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting
any human or animal.
(Ord. O-50-87, passed 1-12-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.78 SIGNS.
   The owner of a vicious animal shall display in a prominent place on his or
her premises a clearly visible warning sign indicating that there is a vicious
animal on the premises. A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or
kennel of the animal.
(Ord. O-50-87, passed 1-12-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.79 INSURANCE.
   Owners of vicious animals must, within 30 days of the effective date of
Ordinance 0-50-87, provide proof to the City Clerk of public liability
insurance in the amount of at least $25,000. insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by his or her vicious animal.
(Ord. O-50-87, passed 1-12-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 91.85 DEFINITION.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
91.01, the following definition shall apply to the provisions of this
subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   "OWNER AND OPERATOR." Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any
entity owning or operating a commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.86 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and maintain a valid
commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a commercial animal
establishment within the county.
   (B)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
Director of Animal Control.
   (C)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year, effective July 1 through June 30 of each year.
   (D)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed annually.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.87 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of the animal.
   (B)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space for
each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lie and turn around without touching the walls or ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or other animal.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Cages or enclosures containing dogs or cats, of any age, shall be
cleaned with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including holidays),
or more if conditions require additional cleaning or disinfecting to keep
animals out of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes shall be cleaned daily
(including holidays) and the litter changed as needed.
      (2)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
if conditions require additional cleaning.
      (3)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals shall be cleaned with
hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more if conditions require
additional cleaning.
   (D)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and water for each animal as follows:
      (1)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays.
      (2)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food.
      (3)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times.
      (4)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
   (E)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
   (F)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal.
   (G)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide for general
cleanliness of the establishment, and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.88 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Animal Control or any Animal Control Officer shall be
permitted and empowered to make an inspection of any commercial animal
establishment within the county, and shall further be permitted to take
photographs of commercial animal establishments during the inspection. The
inspection shall take place upon the verbal request of the Director of Animal
Control or any Animal Control Officer, during regular business hours of the
commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.89 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The Director of Animal Control may revoke any license issued under §
91.60 or §§
91.85 through
91.89. Grounds for such revocation include, but are not limited to, conviction
pursuant to any violation of this ordinance or conviction pursuant to any
related state or federal law. Failure to adhere to the standards set forth in
this ordinance or failure to permit the Department of Animal Control to inspect
any establishment, business, or person regulated by this ordinance during
regular business hours shall be grounds for revocation of any said license.
License revocation notices shall be in writing, specify the number of days for
animal removal, not to exceed seven days, and shall state the grounds therefor.
Any person who receives such license revocation notice issued pursuant to this
section may appeal such notice to the Animal Shelter Advisory Board within ten
days following the receipt of such notice. Any such appeal shall be in writing,
shall state the grounds therefor and shall be signed by the person bringing the
appeal or his or her authorized representative. Failure to file a timely appeal
to a license revocation notice shall result in license revocation. A hearing
for an appeal shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the notice of appeal
before the Animal Shelter Advisory Board, which shall be the sole arbiter of
the appeal.
(Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §§
91.02;
91.17(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), or (I); or
91.16(B) shall be deemed guilty of a Class A misdemeanor as defined by Kentucky
Revised Statutes in accordance with the specific penalties set below. Each day
that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise. Any person violating §§
91.60(A) and (B);
91.61;
91.17(J), (K), (L), (M), and (N);
91.16(A), (C), or (D) or
91.50 shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense which shall be enforced by the
Code Enforcement Board. The Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders
and impose civil fines to enforce this ordinance.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with the licensing requirements of §
91.60 or the vaccination requirements of §
91.61, which are hereby deemed civil offenses, shall on a first offense be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100; on a second or subsequent offense
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.17(A) through (I) relating to the humane treatment of animals shall be fined
a sum not to exceed $100, or be sentenced to not less than five and up to 60
days in the county jail, or both.
   (D)   Any person violating §
91.17(J) through (N) which are hereby deemed civil offenses shall be subject to
the penalties set out in §
33.81.
   (E)   Any owner who violates §
91.16(A), (C), or (D) which are hereby deemed civil offenses shall be subject
to the penalties set out in §
33.81 and be required to reimburse the county for all reasonable expenses
incurred in capturing, impounding, boarding, and providing necessary medical
services.
   (F)   Upon conviction under §
91.16(B) relating to possession of a vicious animal, the penalty shall be a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or not less than ten and up to 60
days in the county jail or both. In addition the court shall order one of the
following:
      (1)   That the following regulations be followed as a condition of the
owner retaining ownership of the animal:
         (a)   The vicious animal shall be neutered, microchip implanted for
identification purposes and registered with Animal Control.
         (b)   The vicious animal shall be confined in an enclosure constructed
of an uncovered fence or structure of at least seven feet in height with anti-
climbers or a covered structure of sufficient height to allow the animal to
stand erect without touching the top or cover. All such enclosures shall be
designed to prevent the entry of small children and shall be suitable to
confine the vicious animal. Such enclosures shall be securely closed and
locked, and shall be designed to prevent the animal from digging out or
otherwise escaping from the enclosure.
         (c)   The enclosure shall display a sign warning of the vicious animal
and shall be visible from the public roadway or public access if applicable.
         (d)   The vicious animal shall not be permitted outside of the
dwelling of its owner or outside of the enclosure unless it is necessary to
obtain veterinary care or under the direction of Animal Control. If the vicious
animal must be allowed outside the permitted areas, it shall be under the
direct control and supervision of its owner or keeper and shall be muzzled and
restrained with a lead or leash not to exceed three feet in length, or placed
in a secure animal carrier.
         (e)   The owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall immediately notify
the Public Safety Communication Center if the animal is loose, unconfined, has
attacked an animal or human being, or is deceased.
      (2)   In the alternative to division (F)(1) above, the court may order
that the animal be immediately surrendered to Animal Control to be euthanized.
   (G)   Upon a conviction of a second or subsequent offense under §
91.16(B) relating to possession of a vicious animal, the penalty shall be a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or not less than ten and up to 60
days in the county jail, or both; and if the violation involves the same
animal, the court shall order the animal immediately surrendered to Animal
Control to be euthanized.
   (H)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.50, which are hereby deemed civil offenses, relating to wild and exotic
animals shall on the first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$100 for each such animal; on the second or subsequent offense shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $100. Upon conviction of a first offense for
each such animal, the Department of Animal Control shall take possession of
said animal.
   (I)   Any humane society which fails to comply with the requirements of §
91.30 shall for the first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$100; on the second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $100.
   (J)   Any commercial animal establishment violating §§
91.85 through
91.89 shall on the first offense be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Ord. O-4-86, passed 2-11-86; Am. Ord. O-14-10, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. O-19-
11, passed 10-11-11)
   (K)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.75 through
91.79 shall be guilty of a gross misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of
not less than $50 nor more than $500, or imprisonment of not more than one year
in jail, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 0-50-87, passed 1-12-88; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
CHAPTER 92: RESERVED
CHAPTER 93: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
93.01   Policy on special events
   
93.02   Violations
§ 93.01 POLICY ON SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The policy on special events (the "Policy"), a copy of which is attached to
Ordinance O-06-05, (passed 5-10-05) as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by
reference, together with such amendments as may be adopted from time to time,
is hereby adopted as an official act of the city.
(Ord. O-06-05, passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. O-18-13, passed 12-10-13)
§ 93.02 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All violations of the policy are designated as civil offenses and
enforcement jurisdiction for the policy is hereby conferred on the city Code
Enforcement Board under the provisions of §
33.70 et seq.
   (B)   Penalties for violations of the policy are as set out in §
33.81, Civil Fines Schedule, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. O-06-05, passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
CHAPTER 94: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
94.01   Connection to Public Safety Communications Center
   
94.02   False alarms
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
   (A)   The connection of alarms to the central alarm monitoring panel in the
Public Safety Communications Center shall be on a first-come first-served
basis. The number shall be limited by the space available in the existing
panel. Application for a connection shall be in letter form addressed to the
Director of Public Safety Communications Center. Upon approval of the
application and payment of the fees, connection will be permitted providing
space is available.
   (B)   The following fees shall be charged for each connection:
      (1)   An initial connection fee of $150 payable after approval of an
application and prior to a connection to the panel.
      (2)   A monitoring fee of $120 per year, payable annually in advance with
no part of the fee refundable if service is terminated during the year.
   (C)   Failure of the subscriber to pay any fee set out in §
94.02 (B) when due or within ten days thereafter may result in a termination of
service to that subscriber.
   (D)   All alarm equipment to be installed must be compatible with the panel
and must be installed, maintained, and interconnected to the panel by a
reputable alarm company at the expense of the subscriber. Responsibility for
proper operation, maintenance, and functioning of all equipment, including
leased lines, is to be assumed by the subscriber or the alarm company providing
the detecting and receiving equipment and maintenance service.
   (E)   The Public Safety Communications Center will provide only monitoring
service of the alarm panel and shall not be responsible for maintenance or
defective alarm equipment, or subscriber's negligence.
   (F)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, "ALARM DEVICE" shall mean a
device which when activated by an occurrence at the premises in which it is
located either automatically places a telephone call to the emergency numbers
at the Public Safety Communications Center and transmits a recorded message to
the effect that an emergency is in progress at the address of the premises to
which police, fire, EMS or other emergency personnel need to respond; or
automatically emits an audible alarm signal outside the premises which directs
public attention to the premises as a place where an emergency situation
exists; or automatically notifies some person or device, other than the central
alarm monitoring panel in the Public Safety Communications Center of an
emergency situation on the premises. This term "ALARM DEVICE" also applies to
medical alarms worn by persons who monitor their individual medical health
conditions.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation which owns or maintains an alarm
device within the city, shall register same in the office of the Director of
the Public Safety Communications Center on forms provided by the Public Safety
Communications Center containing the following information:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the
premises in which the alarm device is located.
         (b)   A general description of the premises including the use thereof;
the type of construction; location of exits; whether there are hazardous
materials contained therein and, if so, the location thereof; whether there are
pets, guard dogs, or other animals usually kept therein; any other information
which the owner believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel
responding to a call to the premises.
         (c)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of at least two
persons other than owner who would be available to meet at the premises with
emergency personnel responding to a call there and assist such personnel in
gaining entrance to the premises and with information necessary for handling
the emergency.
         (d)   Upon such registration, the Director of the Public Safety
Communications Center shall forward copies of the registration to the City
Clerk, the Chief of Police, and the Chief of the Fire Department.
      (3)   All such alarm devices shall be so registered within 30 days of the
effective date of this section or within 30 days of the installation of any
such device installed after the effective date of this section.
      (4)   Alarm devices which are not connected to the monitoring panel of
the Public Safety Communications Center but which are designed to automatically
emit an audible alarm signal outside the premises to direct public attention to
that premises shall be installed so as to limit the audible signal outside the
premises to 30 minutes, except as to fire alarm for which there is no limit.
This time limitation does not apply to alarm devices worn by individuals to
emit an audible alarm regarding that person's medical health.
      (5)   All fees collected hereunder shall be deposited in the general fund
of the city and used for all purposes for which funds therein are used.
(Ord. O-27-79, passed 9-11-79; Am. Ord. O-1-83, passed 1-25-83; Am. Ord. O-17-
91, passed 9-10-91)
§ 94.02 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this chapter, a "FALSE ALARM" is defined as an
alarm or signal emitting from an alarm device through error of a person, error
in installation or operation error, maintenance, upkeep, or testing non-
notification, at the premises served by the alarm device, which results in an
emergency response from the police, fire, EMS, or other emergency personnel to
the premises. A fee for each false alarm run or response, in the amount set
forth below, shall be and is hereby imposed or levied to be paid by the owner
of the premises to which the false alarm run was made. However, there shall be
no fee for the first false alarm per month at any premises.
      (2)   False alarm fees are:
         (a)   For ten or less false alarms in any calendar year      $25 each
         (b)   For false alarms in excess of ten in any calendar year   $100
each
   (B)   The appropriate public official of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to send a bill or invoice on behalf of the city to the property owner
of the particular premises, this billing to occur at least annually.
(Ord. O-17-91, passed 9-10-91; Am. Ord. O-04-00, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. O-5-
12, passed 3-27-12)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity found to have violated the
provisions of this chapter is deemed to have committed a civil offense which
shall be enforce by the imposition of a civil fine not to exceed $75 for each
offense, and each day for such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders
and impose civil fines to enforce this chapter.
(Ord.O-1-83, passed 1-25-83; Am. Ord.O-17-91, passed 9-10-91)
CHAPTER 95: ANATOMICAL STUDIES
Section
   
95.01   Possession or use of bodies for study
   
95.02   Burial
   
95.03   Records required
   
95.04   Exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POSSESSION OR USE OF BODIES FOR STUDY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, institution,
or other legal entity, other than those listed hereafter, to possess or use for
anatomical studies in the city the dead body, or any part thereof, of any
person who died outside the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   Dead bodies or any part thereof may be possessed or used for
anatomical studies by:
      (1)   Any hospital licensed, accredited, or approved under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky or a hospital operated by the United States
Government, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any political subdivision thereof.
      (2)   Any college provided, operated, and supported by federal, state or
county government or any of their political subdivisions, any nursing school
accredited under KRS 314.111, or any college as defined in KRS 164.945 which
conducts anatomical studies and which is licensed under the provisions of KRS
164.945 through 164.947 to conduct the studies.
      (3)   Any non-profit research institution which is not a college under
(B) (2) above and which conducts anatomical studies for the advancement of
medical or dental science, which studies are accredited or approved by the
American Medical Association, the American Osteopathic Association, the
American Society of Anatomy, the American College of Pathology, or which has a
bona fide affiliation or contract with a teaching institution or hospital which
itself is accredited or approved by one of the organizations or whose research
program is funded by a state or federal grant.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or other legal entity
which possesses or uses for anatomical studies any dead body or any part
thereof under (B)(2) or (B)(3) above shall maintain the body in an embalmed
condition, shall at all times ensure its proper and safe custody upon their
premises, shall permit only its physicians, teachers, students, research
workers, and technicians to have access to the body, shall comply with all
applicable regulations of the Boone County Health Department or any other
governmental agency, and shall identify all parts dissected free from the body
in such manner that it can be determined from which body the parts were
dissected.
(Ord. O-9-79, passed 4-10-79)
§ 95.02 BURIAL.
   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or other legal entity which
possesses or uses for anatomical studies any dead body or part thereof under
(B)(2) or (B)(3) above shall, upon completion of the study thereof, deliver the
body then constituted to the Boone County Coroner for burial or cremation, and
shall pay the expenses of the burial or cremation and of the preparation of the
body at the rates provided by law or which are usual and customary therefor.
(Ord. O-9-79, passed 4-10-79)
Statutory reference:
   Burial after dissection, see KRS 311.340
§ 95.03 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or other legal entity which
possesses or uses for anatomical studies any dead body or part thereof under §
95.01 shall keep a record in a book to be kept by them for that purpose, of all
such bodies in their possession. The book shall at all times be subject to
inspection by any officer of the city, state, or county or relative or friend
of any deceased person whose body shall be in their possession. The record
shall show the name, if known, the age, sex, date and cause of death, the date
when the body came into their possession, the date of interment, and the final
place of interment, together with any distinguishing marks by which the body
may be identified.
(Ord. O-9-79, passed 4-10-79)
§ 95.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any medical laboratories
or their employees as defined in KRS 333, funeral directors or embalmers or
their employees operating under KRS 316, coroners or medical examiners,
physicians, osteopaths, dentists, podiatrists, dental laboratories or
technicians, pharmacists, nurses, or their employees engaged in treatment,
therapy, or transplantation, any individual for therapy or transplantation
needed by him, nor to the transportation of dead bodies or parts thereof
directly through the city without unreasonable delay.
(Ord. O-9-79, passed 4-10-79)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or other legal entity who
violates any of the the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $10 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than twelve
months, or both. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-9-79, passed 4-10-79)
CHAPTER 96: MUNICIPAL PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Public parks
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate parks, see KRS 97.010 through 97.050
§ 96.01 PUBLIC PARKS.
   The rules and regulations recommended to the City Council by the Police
Department of the city and the City Public Services Department applicable and
related to the city's public parks shall be and are hereby adopted and approved
as follows:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be on city park property
without permission after the park has closed. City parks will be considered
open between the hours of dawn to dusk permission for use of the parks or any
section thereof may be granted by the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the
city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have an open fire in any part of the park
except in areas designated as proper and safe for open fires.
   (C)   Reservations must be made with the Parks and Recreation Administrator
of the city for use of the building facilities or gazebo at Florence Nature
Park.
   (D)   Persons wishing to use ball fields at a city park must reserve a date
and time for such use with the Boone County Parks Department. Persons wishing
to use tennis facilities or shelters at a city park must reserve a date and
time with the city Parks and Recreation Administrator. A fee may be assessed to
offset any costs that might be incurred at the discretion of the Parks and
Recreation Administrator of the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to have a pet in a city park unless
the dog is on a leash at all times. No owner or custodian of any pet shall
cause or allow such animal to soil, defile or defecate on any property within a
public park of the city, unless such owner or custodian immediately removes and
disposes of all feces deposited by such animal by the following methods:
      (1)   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      (2)   Removal of such bag or container and disposition thereafter in a
manner as otherwise may be permitted by law.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to dispose of litter in the park
except in trash containers provided for that purpose.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to operate or ride in or on any motorized
vehicles of any type, including but not limited to automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, ATVs, mini bikes or mopeds, in any city park except on park roads
and in designated parking areas. When necessary the Parks and Recreation
Administrator of the city may authorize parking outside of designated parking
areas to meet the needs of special events. This regulation shall not apply to
law enforcement officers, maintenance employees of the city or county, or any
other public official engaged in the discharge of their duties.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or other entity to
conduct or engage in any form of trade, business or other commercial activity
or perform any type of service for consideration within a city park without the
permission of the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the city.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive a horse in a city
park except in those areas designated as bridle paths without the approval of
the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the city.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice golf by hitting golf
balls within a city park.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair or service any motor
vehicle within any city park.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to camp overnight in any city park without
written approval of the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the city.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to cut or remove any trees, flowers or vegetation
from within city parks without the approval of the Parks and Recreation
Administrator of the city.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display, post, distribute, or
place any sign, advertisement, circular notice, statement; banner, emblem or
design within any park without the written approval of the Parks and Recreation
Administrator of the city.
   (O)   Surfaced courts are to be used for their intended sports only. It
shall be unlawful to use bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, roller skates,
and the like, on surfaced courts.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to hunt, trap or in anyway injure or molest any
wild animal found within the boundaries of the parks except when approved by
the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the city.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage in any city park this regulation shall not apply to groups
with approval from the Parks and Recreation Administrator of the city.
(Ord. O-01-01, passed 2-13-01; Am. Ord. O-07-05, passed 5-10-05)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter are, pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), hereby
designated as "a misdemeanor" punishable by a criminal fine as set forth in KRS
534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the periods set forth in
KRS 532.090(1).
(Ord. O-01-01, passed 2-13-01)
CHAPTER 97: LANDLORD AND TENANT CODE
Section
   
97.01   Adoption by reference
§ 97.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (KRS 383.500 through
383.715) as enacted by the General Assembly of Kentucky in 1984 shall be and is
hereby enacted and adopted in its entirety. The Uniform Residential Landlord
and Tenant Act as enacted and adopted in its entirety by this section is as set
forth in Exhibit "A" to Ordinance O-9-85 and incorporated herein by reference
as if fully set out.
(Ord. O-9-85, passed 4-9-85)
CHAPTER 98: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Smoke Detectors
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Smoke detectors required
   
98.03   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
98.04   Providing, installing, and maintaining smoke detectors
   
98.05   Supplemental standards
   
98.06   Enforcement
Fireworks
   
98.15   Definitions
   
98.16   Prohibition
   
98.17   Sale of fireworks
   
98.18   Permanent retail fireworks permit
   
98.19   Signs required
   
98.20   Ancillary retail fireworks permit
   
98.21   Revocation of permit
NFPA 1 Fire Prevention Code
   
98.25   Adoption by reference
   
98.26   Amendments to chapter 1
   
98.27   Exclusions
   
98.28   Violations designed as civil offense
   
98.29   Application for appeal
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code
   
98.40   Adoption by reference
   
98.41   Exclusions
   
98.42   Violations designated as civil offense
   
98.43   Application for appeal
Obstruction of Fire Hydrants and Associated Fire Equipment
   
98.50   Obstruction prohibited
   
98.51   Compliance
   
98.52   Notice of violation
Open Burning
   
98.60   Open burning restrictions
   
98.61   Violations designated as civil offense
   
98.62   Application for appeal
 
   
98.99   Penalty
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING." Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms, or area designated or used for sleeping purposes either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. "DWELLING" shall include a rooming
house, motel, tourist home, school dormitory, and apartment building.
   "DWELLING UNIT." Any group of rooms, located within a building or structure
including mobile homes and forming a single housekeeping unit with facilities
which are used or designed to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   "OWNER." Any person, who, alone, jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall
have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate,
or duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the owner's obligations under this
section.
   "ROOMING UNIT." Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
rooming unit may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory, or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
§ 98.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, smoke detectors shall be required in all dwellings privately owned or
rented for occupancy. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new
or existing occupied dwelling unit to install smoke detectors in each dwelling
unit as hereinafter provided. The smoke detectors shall be capable of sensing
visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable audible
(or visual for the deaf or hearing impaired) alarm.
   (B)   This section shall apply to any and all dwellings or dwelling units,
new or existing, which do not fall under the jurisdiction of the currently
adopted Kentucky Building Code or the currently adopted Life Safety Code (LSC
101).
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.03 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or photo-
electric type detectors approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory
shall be installed. As an alternative to self-contained smoke detectors, under
certain limited conditions an approved fire detection system or a combination
thereof may be installed. Each and every alternative system must be
individually approved in written form by the Bureau of Fire Prevention of the
City Fire Department.
   (B)   Smoke detectors in new residential dwellings shall be wired directly
(hard wired) to the building's power supply. In existing buildings, it is
preferred that smoke detectors be wired directly to the power supply; however,
the detectors may be powered by self-monitored battery or operated by an
electrical plug-in outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device,
provided that the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main
power supply.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable N.F.P.A.
Standards (see § 98.05). Detectors may be ceiling or wall mounted, provided,
that if wall mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not closer than six
inches of the ceiling.
   (D)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area. A sleeping area is defined as the area or areas of the dwelling
unit in which the bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) are located. Where bedrooms or
rooms ordinarily used for sleeping are separated by other use areas (such as
kitchens or living rooms, but not bathrooms or closets), they shall be
considered as separate sleeping areas for the purposes of this section. In a
dwelling unit which contains a well defined sleeping room separated from the
other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be located in the
corridor within the unit or interior area giving access to the rooms used for
sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated or where a single smoke
detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there shall be a smoke
detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (E)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (F)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
   (G)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or near each
stairway leading up to an occupied area in such a manner as to assure that
rising smoke is not obstructed in reaching the detector and the detector
intercepts rising smoke before it reaches the occupied area.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.04 PROVIDING, INSTALLING, AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detectors and for providing
maintenance and testing in an owner-occupied residence; or for providing the
manufacturer's maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant in the case of
rental property.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, which are
located in common areas or detectors in rooming units where the tenant usually
has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels, rooming or tourist homes).
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, which are within
his exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall be
responsible for notifying the owner when a detector becomes inoperable,
whereafter the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace in operable
condition the detectors. In the battery operated type of detectors, battery
replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and, if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition.
   (E)   At every change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or
incidental to a sale, lease, or sub-lease of the unit, it shall be the duty of
the grantor thereof (i.e., the seller, lessor, or sub-lessor, as the case may
be) to provide, before occupancy, to the new occupant that all smoke detectors
required by this section (or other applicable laws) are installed and in proper
working condition. Failure to comply with this division (E) shall be punishable
as set forth herein, provided, however, that this division (E) shall not be
construed to violate or render void any contract, lease, or sub-lease subject
hereto.
   (F)   No smoke detector or alternative system shall be directly connected
(permanently wired) to the electrical system of a structure without the proper
electrical certification.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.05 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This subchapter is intended to be used with, and supplemented by, the
applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Standards 72-E and 74
(current edition) which are hereby incorporated herein; however, if there shall
be any conflict between this subchapter and the supplemental standards, this
subchapter and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall
prevail. All amendments to or changes in N.F.P.A. Nos. 72-E and 74 shall be
adopted and made part thereof without further reference.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
§ 98.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Bureau of Fire Prevention of the City Volunteer Fire Department
shall be primarily responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Building Department shall assist the Bureau by making
referrals to the Bureau as part of its regular inspection and enforcement of
all city housing, building, and safety codes. No building permits for
remodeling or repair of a dwelling unit shall be issued for any dwelling unit
not properly equipped with the detectors. No certificate of occupancy shall be
issued for any new dwelling or dwelling unit not properly equipped with the
detectors. Detectors must be operable for the final inspection of the City
Building Inspector or Fire Prevention Bureau Inspector. Instructions and
maintenance booklets must be provided to the owner by the manufacturer as per
N.F.P.A. No. 74, and said documentation displayed to the Building Inspector
during the final inspection.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
FIREWORKS
§ 98.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms or phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings subscribed to them in this section except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   "AERIAL" or "AUDIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS." Those consumer fireworks described
in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) only.
   "ANCILLARY FIREWORKS RETAILER." Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell only those fireworks as
described in KRS 227.702(1) and which such sales are ancillary to its primary
course of business.
   "CONSUMER FIREWORKS." Has the same meaning as in KRS 227.702.
   "PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILER." Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and, which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell any consumer fireworks as its
primary course of business.
   "SEASONAL FIREWORKS RETAILER." Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is not considered a permanent fireworks retailer
or ancillary fireworks retailer, and which offers for sale, exposes for sale,
sells at retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell any consumer
fireworks.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11)
§ 98.16 PROHIBITION.
   The use or sale of fireworks, including consumer fireworks, is prohibited in
the city except in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11) Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.17 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Subject to applicable zoning regulations, federal, state and local law, and
the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Ancillary fireworks retailers shall be permitted to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
those fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) when such sales are ancillary to
its primary course of business;
   (B)   Permanent fireworks retailers shall be permitted to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
any consumer fireworks as their primary course of business; and
   (C)   Seasonal fireworks retailers shall not be allowed to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
any fireworks, at any time or place.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11) Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.18 PERMANENT RETAIL FIREWORKS PERMIT.
   Permanent fireworks retailers shall obtain and keep in force a city
permanent retail fireworks permit (the "permanent permit") under the following
terms and conditions:
   (A)   Applications for the permanent permit shall be submitted to the
Finance Department at least 15 days prior to the applicant's desired effective
date for the permit, on a form approved by the city. All applications must
include a detailed site plan for the proposed location.
   (B)   Applicant shall provide proof of registration with the State Fire
Marshal in accordance with the applicable provisions of KRS Chapter 227.
   (C)   The application must be endorsed by the Boone County Planning
Commission indicating that the proposed location on the application is zoned
appropriately for the conduct of said business.
   (D)   Applicant shall obtain an occupational license from the city.
   (E)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance or other valid
proof of general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000
per occurrence which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the
permitted activity.
   (F)   Applicant shall comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 227, the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments
(adopted edition), NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association, currently
adopted edition) and all other applicable state, federal or local laws or
regulations.
   (G)   Applicant shall not allow any person under 18 years of age to sell
consumer fireworks.
   (H)   Applicant shall not give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   Applicant shall not offer for sale, expose for sale, or sell consumer
fireworks except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., provided that
applicant may be open for business and sell consumer fireworks until 1:00 a.m.
each year during the two weeks prior to July 4 (including June 19 through 30
and July 1 through 4); the three days prior to Labor Day; and the three days
prior to New Year's Day.
   (J)   The initially issued permanent permit shall expire 365 calendar days
after its effective date, or upon a date on which the applicant no longer
qualifies as a permanent fireworks retailer as defined herein. The permanent
permit may be renewed for successive 365 calendar day periods so long as the
applicant continues to qualify for issuance of the permanent permit.
Applications for renewal periods shall be made to the Finance Department on
forms approved by the city. The fee for the initial permit period, payable at
the time of application, shall be $3,000. The fee for any subsequent permit
period, payable at the time of application, shall be $1,000.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. O-7-19, passed 3-12-19) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.19 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   At all locations within the premises of a permanent fireworks retailer where
consumer fireworks, as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) are offered for sale,
such retailer shall conspicuously post a sign or signs which state as follows:
"Under Kentucky law these fireworks may only be used by persons at least 18
years of age and these fireworks shall not be ignited within 200 feet of any
structure, vehicle or any other person. [KRS 227.715(11)]"
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.20 ANCILLARY RETAIL FIREWORKS PERMIT.
   Ancillary fireworks retailers shall obtain and keep in force a city
ancillary retail fireworks permit (the "ancillary permit") under the following
terms and conditions:
   (A)   Applications for the ancillary permit shall be submitted to the
Finance Department at least 15 days prior to the applicant's desired effective
date for the permit, on a form approved by the city.
   (B)   Applicant shall possess an occupational license from the city.
   (C)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance or other valid
proof of general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000
per occurrence which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the
permitted activity.
   (D)   Applicant shall comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 227, the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments
(adopted edition), NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association, currently
adopted edition) and all other applicable state, federal or local laws or
regulations.
   (E)   The initially issued ancillary permit shall expire 365 calendar days
after its effective date, or upon a date on which the applicant no longer
qualifies as an ancillary fireworks retailer as defined herein. The ancillary
permit may be renewed for successive 365 calendar day periods so long as the
applicant continues to qualify for issuance of the ancillary permit.
Applications for renewal periods shall be made to the Finance Department on
forms approved by the city. The fee for the initial permit period, payable at
the time of application, shall be $25. The fee for any subsequent permit
period, payable at the time of application, shall be $25.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11) Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.21 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by
the City Coordinator upon a showing that the permit holder has violated any of
the provisions of this subchapter. Revocation shall be by written notice which
describes the reasons for the revocation. The written notice of revocation
shall be delivered to the permit holder in person or by regular mail sent to
the address listed on the application. If a permit is revoked, and the
applicant desires to contest the revocation, a hearing before the City Council
may be obtained by filing with the office of the City Coordinator a written
request for hearing within 15 days of the issuance of the revocation notice.
The hearing before the City Council shall be conducted within 30 days of filing
of such request.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11)
NFPA 1 FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 98.25 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5) the NFPA I Fire Code 2018 Edition, as published
by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., and approved as an American
National Standard on September 6, 2017, the provisions of which are
incorporated herein by reference, be and is hereby adopted as the Fire
Prevention Code of the city, except as same is hereinafter amended. A copy of
the code shall accompany Ordinance 0-4-22 (passed 4-26-22) and is made a part
of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. O-14-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-22-
14, passed 10-14-14; Am. Ord. O-4-22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.26 AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 1.
   Section 1.10 of Chapter 1 entitled Board of Appeals is hereby excluded in
its entirety.
(Ord. O-14-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-4-
22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.27 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following codes and references are excluded from the code:
   (A)   NFPA 403, Guide for Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting Operations, 2018
Edition;
   (B)   NFPA 1031, Standard for Professional Qualifications for Fire
Inspectors and Plan Examiner, 2014 Edition;
   (C)   NFPA 1192, Standard on Recreational Vehicles, 2018 edition;
   (D)   NFPA 1194, Standard for Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds,
2018 edition;
   (E)   NFPA 1901, Standard for Automotive Fire Apparatus, 2016 edition;
   (F)   NFPA 1906, Standard for Wildland Fire Apparatus, 2016 edition;
   (G)   NFPA 1925, Standard on Marine Fire-Fighting Vessels, 2013 edition;
   (H)   NFPA 1963, Standard for Fire Hose Connections, 2014 edition;
   (I)   NFPA 2113, Standard on Selection, Care, Use, and Maintenance of Flame-
Resistant Garments for Protection of Industrial Personnel Against Short-
Duration Thermal Exposures from Fire, 2015 edition;
   (J)   NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Code, 2018 Edition;
   (K)   Code reference 1.7.2, Minimum Qualifications to Enforce this Code;
   (L)   Code reference 10.2.7, Minimum Fire Prevention Inspection Frequencies
for Existing Occupancies;
   (M)   Code reference 13.3.2.26, High Rise Buildings;
   (N)   Code reference 13.3.2.8, Existing Assembly Occupancies;
   (O)   Code Reference 13.6 Portable Extinguishers, which if required, shall
be modified to exclude the provisions for installation of portable
extinguishers in the occupancies listed in table 13.6. Portable extinguishers
shall be installed as required in the occupancy chapters of NFPA 101, Life
Safety Code, 2018 Edition;
   (P)   Code reference 10.10 Open Burning;
   (Q)   Code reference 18.5.3 Fire Hydrant Clearance and 18.5.7 Clear Space
Around Hydrants;
   (R)   Code reference 1.13.2; and
   (S)   Code reference 1.16 through Code reference 1.16.4.5 Penalties.
(Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 0-22-14, passed 10-14-14; Am. Ord. O-4-
22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.28 VIOLATIONS DESIGNATED AS CIVIL OFFENSE.
   All violations of this code are designated as civil offenses and enforced by
imposing civil fines as set out in §§
33.70 et seq. The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue
remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this code.
(Ord. O-14-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. O-4-
22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.29 APPLICATION FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official, or
notice, or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the
City of Florence Code Enforcement Board, provided that a written application
for appeal is filed with the City Clerk within seven days after the date the
decision, notice, or order was served. An application for appeal shall include
a request for hearing as described in §
33.77(F). An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interrupted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means, or that the
strict application of any requirement of this code would cause an undue
hardship.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. Appeals under this subchapter shall be heard by the
Board following the procedure for hearing set forth in §
33.70 et seq. At the conclusion of such hearing, the Board shall issue a
finding granting or denying the appeal and such other remedy or penalty orders
as are necessary to enforce the provisions of code.
(Ord. O-14-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-4-22, passed 4-26-22)
NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE
§ 98.40 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5) the NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 2018 Edition,
effective September 6, 2017, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association and approved as an American National Standard, the provisions of
which are incorporated herein by reference, be and is hereby adopted as the
Life Safety Code of the city, Kentucky (the "Code"), except as same as
hereinafter amended. A copy of the Code shall accompany Ordinance O-5-22
(passed 4-26-22) and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. O-15-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-10-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-23-
14, passed 10-14-14; Am. Ord. O-5-22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.41 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following codes and sections shall be excluded from the code for the
purposes of this subchapter: Code Section 13.3.5, Extinguishment Requirements.
(Ord. O-10-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-23-14, passed 10-14-14; Am. Ord. O-5-
22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.42 VIOLATIONS DESIGNATED AS CIVIL OFFENSE.
   All violations of this code are designated as civil offenses and enforced by
imposing civil fines as set out in §
33.81. The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines to enforce this code.
(Ord. O-15-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-10-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-10-
16, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. O-5-22, passed 4-26-22)
§ 98.43 APPLICATION FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official, or
notice, or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the
city Code Enforcement Board, provided that a written application for appeal is
filed with the City Clerk within seven days after the date the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application for appeal shall include a request
for hearing as described in §33.77(G). An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this Code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means, or that the strict application of any requirement of this Code
would cause an undue hardship.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. Appeals under this section shall be heard by the
Board following the procedure for hearing set forth in §
33.77. At the conclusion of such hearing, the Board shall issue a finding
granting or denying the appeal and such other remedy or penalty orders as are
necessary to enforce the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. O-15-05, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. O-10-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. O-10-
16, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. O-5-22, passed 4-26-22)
OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS AND ASSOCIATED FIRE EQUIPMENT
§ 98.50 OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no obstruction, including, but not limited to landscaping,
overgrowth, walls, and fences, placed or kept near fire hydrants, Fire
Department inlet connections, fire protection system controls, or isolation
valve access covers in a manner which would prevent such equipment from being
immediately visible and accessible. A minimum ten-foot unobstructed radius
shall be maintained around all fire hydrants. Radii less than ten-foot may be
approved by the Fire/EMS Chief. A minimum four-foot unobstructed passageway
shall be maintained to provide access to Fire Department inlet connections,
fire protection system controls, and isolation valve access covers.
(Ord. O-21-06, passed 9-12-06)
§ 98.51 COMPLIANCE.
   All persons owning property adjacent to fire hydrants, Fire Department inlet
connections, fire protection system controls, or isolation valve access covers
shall be in compliance with this subchapter within six months of its effective
date.
(Ord. O-21-06, passed 9-12-06)
§ 98.52 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When a Code Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of §
98.50, the Officer is authorized to issue a citation to the offender or, in
lieu of issuing a citation, give a notice of violation. Any citation issued by
the Code Enforcement Officer shall comply with Section VIII of Ordinance No. O-
7-02 (passed 4-30-02).
(Ord. No. O-21-06, passed 9-12-06)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see §§
33.70 et seq.
OPEN BURNING
§ 98.60 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   No garbage, trash, rubbish, leaves, paper, plastic, petroleum based products
or other materials shall be burned unless in an approved manner. Fires set to
clear land for commercial development is prohibited. Unless otherwise
prohibited, the following types of fires may be kindles within the city:
   (A)   Outdoor commercial or noncommercial fires used for cooking within a
fireplace, barbecue set, or barbecue pit and is only fueled with cut and split
firewood. These cooking fires shall not be kindled within ten feet of any
structure or combustible assembly. Propane, natural gas, charcoal and briquette
cooking fires are not regulated under this section.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational fire for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, or
similar purposes in which the fuel is burned in an approved fireplace, store
bought chiminea or commercially fabricated steel or non- combustible patio
style fireplace where such device is being used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s guidelines and is only fueled with cut and split firewood, and
the total fuel area is not exceeding three feet in diameter and two feet in
height. Recreational fires shall not be kindled within ten feet of any
structure or combustible assembly.
   (C)   Outdoor noncommercial fire to clear yard debris including sticks,
stems, and twigs that is burned in an incinerator, barrel, wire basket, or
similar device shall include a spark arrester screen with openings not greater
than one-half inch that will prevent the fire from spreading or endangering
other areas. These debris clearing fires shall not be kindled within 25 feet of
any structure or combustible assembly.
   (D)   All outdoor fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until such a fire is extinguished. This person shall have a garden hose
connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily
available for use.
   (E)   Florence Fire/EMS Department is authorized to require any fire to be
immediately discontinued if the fire is determined to constitute a hazardous
condition.
(Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07)
§ 98.61 VIOLATIONS DESIGNATED AS CIVIL OFFENSE.
   All violations of this code are designated as civil offenses and enforced by
imposing civil fines as set out in §
33.81. The city Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines to enforce this code.
(Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07)
§ 98.62 APPLICATION FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official, or
notice, or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the
city Code Enforcement Board, provided that a written application for appeal is
filed with the City Clerk within seven days after the date the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application for appeal shall include a request
for hearing as described in §
33.77(F). An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this Code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interrupted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means, or that the
strict application of any requirement of this Code would cause an undue
hardship.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. Appeals under this section shall be heard by the
Board following the procedure for hearing set forth in §
33.77. At the conclusion of such hearing, the Board shall issue a finding
granting or denying the appeal and such other remedy or penalty orders as are
necessary to enforce the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. O-9-07, passed 6-26-07)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for noncompliance with §§
98.01 through
98.06 is not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each violation. If violations
exist in a dwelling, or rooming unit as specified in §
98.01, each unit shall be deemed and considered a separate violation. The
penalty for noncompliance with §§
98.01 through
98.06 is automatically waived if the dwelling or dwelling unit is brought into
compliance with those sections within 30 days of the original violation. The
property owner must request an inspection from the Fire Prevention Bureau to
verify compliance and have the waiver provision applied.
(Ord. O-10-85, passed 3-26-85)
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) the violation of any of the provisions of
§§
98.15 through
98.21 is designated a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed the
amounts set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both. Each day a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-21-11, passed 10-25-11)
   (C)   All violations of §§
98.50 through
98.52 are designated as civil offenses and enforced by imposing civil fines of
$50 per offense. The City of Florence Code Enforcement Board shall have the
power to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce §§
98.50 through
98.52. In addition to the civil fines, the Board may assess any charges and/or
fees associated with the removal of the obstruction to the violator.
(Ord. O-21-06, passed 9-12-06)
CHAPTER 99: TREES
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Urban forest commission responsibilities and duties
   
99.03   Permission required for certain actions
   
99.04   Exception in emergency
   
99.05   Commission review of development plans
   
99.06   Public directive to notify of tree injury
   
99.07   Specifications for tree planting; identification of sites
   
99.08   Tree classifications; standards
 
   
99.99   Penalty
   
Appendix
Cross-reference:
   Establishment of Urban Forest Commission, see §§ 33.55 through
33.40
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CITY." The City of Florence, Kentucky, including any of its officers,
employees, or designated representatives.
   "CITY TREE." A tree located on property owned by the city or on public
right-of-way.
   "DRIP LINE." A line connecting the tips of the outermost branches of a tree
projected vertically onto the ground.
   "LANDMARK TREE." Any tree designated and identified as such by the Urban
Forest Commission pursuant to the standards set forth herein.
   "PLANTING SITE." The location where a tree can be planted.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." An area or strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a
public way. In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs,
lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include
special features such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and
bridges.
   "ROOT SYSTEM." Tree roots within the drip line perimeter.
   "TREE." Any living, self-supporting woody or fibrous plant, usually having a
single woody trunk, and having a diameter not less than two inches measured at
a point four feet above the ground.
   "URBAN FOREST COMMISSION." The Urban Forest Commission of the City.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
§ 99.02 URBAN FOREST COMMISSION RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Provide public promotion and leadership in facilitating public
awareness of tree conservation, tree protection and tree planting issues.
   (B)   Prepare and maintain a list of trees suitable for planting in public
right-of-ways and on public property conducive to growth in the Greater
Cincinnati region.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
§ 99.03 PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commit any of the following acts with respect
to trees on the public right-of-way or on public property without written
permission from the Urban Forest Commission through the Public Services
Department.
      (1)   Cut, prune, trim, break, injure, alter or remove any tree; or cut,
unduly disturb, or interfere with the root zone of a tree(s) except as provided
in this chapter.
      (2)   Fasten any object, rope, wire, sign, insulator, or other device to
a tree(s).
      (3)   Install, remove, or injure any guard or device placed to protect
tree(s).
      (4)   Close or obstruct any open spaces about the base of a tree or trees
to permit the access of air, water, and fertilizer to the roots of such tree
(s).
      (5)   Cut or compact any roots within the drip line of any tree or any
roots four inches or more in diameter at any location on public right-of-way or
on public property.
      (6)   String or bury wires or lines through a public park.
   (B)   The Urban Forest Commission, through the Public Services Department
may grant written permission for any activity in division (A) of this section
if it is in the public interest to do so, and is not likely to injure a tree on
the public right-of-way or public property. Any person, firm, or corporation
causing damage to tree(s) on the public right-of-way or on public property
shall be held liable for damages.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.04 EXCEPTION IN EMERGENCY.
   Any entity having a legal right to maintain utility lines, poles, and the
like, serving the city or any emergency services department shall have the
right to remove/trim trees, without the approval of the Urban Forest
Commission, when an emergency exists. All such entities shall have the right to
trim trees for the purpose of ensuring continuous service, or to avoid danger
to the public, their personnel or equipment. However, the entity shall contact
the Urban Forest Commission through the City Public Services Department before
beginning non-emergency tree trimming operations.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
§ 99.05 COMMISSION REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Whenever development is to occur on city property or public right-of-
way, including the construction or reconstruction of any public street, curb or
sidewalk, when city trees are affected, the Urban Forest Commission shall be
notified. The Commission may review the development plans or construction
drawings and make recommendations to the city that will minimize the impact on
said trees. Urban Forest Commission recommendations shall encourage tree
conservation whenever practical, or provide advice as to when tree removal is
more feasible.
   (B)   In determining whether tree removal may be necessary, the Tree
Commission should consider:
      (1)   Whether the presence of much tree would cause hardship or endanger
the public or an adjoining property owner.
      (2)   Whether such tree is located in an area to be occupied by
buildings, driveways, recreation areas or other construction or within the drip
line of a tree.
      (3)   Whether such tree is located in an area to have cut or on land to
be filled that may be injurious to such trees.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
§ 99.06 PUBLIC DIRECTIVE TO NOTIFY OF TREE INJURY.
   It is hereby declared to be the duty of all persons having knowledge
thereof, to immediately notify the Public Services Department of any tree in or
upon any public right-of-way or public property under the jurisdiction of the
city which has suffered any accident or injury, is in need of attention or care
or has become dangerous to the public or to the adjacent property. This
provision shall be considered as a directive only and for the public good, and
no penalty shall be imposed for the failure to comply with this provision.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
§ 99.07 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TREE PLANTING; IDENTIFICATION OF SITES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation must contact the Urban Forest
Commission through the Public Services Department before planting a tree on the
public right-of-way or on public property. The Florence Urban Forest Management
Plan will be consulted to determine if a planting site or planting area exists.
If the proposed tree planting site/area is not listed in the Urban Forest
Management Plan, the following specifications shall be considered to identify a
tree planting site/area:
      (1)   A tree lawn width of five feet shall be required for small trees,
eight feet for medium trees, and ten feet for large trees.
      (2)   The minimum distance between trees shall be 20 feet for small
planting sites, 30 feet for medium planting sites, or 40 feet for large
planting sites.
      (3)   All planting sites shall be at least 35 feet away from street
intersections.
      (4)   All planting sites shall be at least 10 feet away from fire
hydrants, driveways, utility poles and street lights.
      (5)   All planting sites shall be at least ten feet away from any visible
or identifiable underground utilities.
      (6)   All small tree planting sites shall have an overhead clearance of
at least 25 feet.
      (7)   Large and medium planting sites shall not be located underneath
wires, but they may be located adjacent to wires if there is an offset of at
least 20 feet from the vertical plane of the nearest wire to the centerline of
the tree.
      (8)   All planting sites shall be located at least ten feet from the
front and three feet to the sides of the padmount transformers.
      (9)   Planting sites located along a newly developed public street shall
be located nine to 12 feet off the back of the curb.
      (10)   The size and species of a tree(s) selected for planting shall
conform to the size of the planting site.
   (B)   In addition, before any tree is planted on city property or right-of-
way, by or with the permission of the Urban Forest Commission, the planting
site or areas shall have written approval of the following:
      (1)   The City Police Department. The Police Department shall determine
whether a tree on the proposed planting site would be detrimental to public
safety, whether as a visual obstruction, or otherwise.
      (2)   Public utilities. Appropriate public utilities shall be contacted
to determine if a planting site(s) would interfere with existing or planned
utility facilities.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.08 TREE CLASSIFICATIONS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Planting the correct tree species on the public right-of-way or on
public property is just as important as identifying a tree planting site. The
size of the tree selected should conform to the size of the planting site. A
recommended species list has been compiled, and has been broken down into
small, medium and large tree size classifications. This list, included as
Appendix A, shall be referred to for proper tree selection. The Urban Forest
Commission reserves the right to approve trees for planting other than those
listed in Appendix A. The recommended species list will be updated by the Urban
Forest Commission as conditions necessitate the need for change.
   (B)   A list of trees that are undesirable for planting on the public right-
of-way and public properties has also been compiled. The undesirable species
list is included as Appendix B and must be referred to before planting on the
public right-of-way or on public property. The Urban Forest Commission reserves
the right to reject proposed trees not listed in
Appendix B. The undesirable species list may be periodically updated by the
Urban Forest Commission as conditions necessitate the need for change.
   (C)   Tree trimming and pruning shall be done in accordance with the
National Arborists Association Pruning Standards.
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) the offense of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter is designated a violation and the offender shall pay a fine in an
amount not to exceed $250 for each offense as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(Ord. O-12-93, passed 5-11-93)
APPENDIX A: RECOMMENDED SPECIES LIST
This list is provided as a guide to the most appropriate trees for urban
situations. There is no single perfect tree. The most successful course is to
match the planting site limitations with the right tree for the spot. Each site
must be evaluated and possible restrictions on tree species noted. These
restrictions include rooting space, soil texture, soil pH, drainage, exposure,
overhead wires, and surrounding building surfaces.
The trees appearing on this listing have different requirements and tolerances.
These species all should do well in the urban forest environment of the city.
Before selecting any particular species or variety, further research should be
done to insure that the site will satisfy the specific requirements of the
plant.
Small Trees:
Downy Serviceberry
Dogwood
Crab Apple
Red Jewel
Bell-flowered Cherry
Redbud
Sweetbay Magnolia
Centurion
Spring Snow
Sargent Cherry
Medium Trees:
American Holly
Katsura Tree
Urbanite Green Ash
Amur Cork Tree
Japanese Pagoda Tree
Upright European Hornbeam
Ohio Pioneer Hawthorne
Thornless Washington Hawthorne
Goldenrain Tree
Heritage River Birch
Turkish Filbert
Thornless Honey Locust
Aristocrat Callery Pear
Green Vase, Village Green Zelkova
American Hornbeam
Winter King Hawthorne
Saucer Magnolia
Large Trees:
Ohio Buckeye
Shagbark Hickory
European Beech
Autumn Purple White Ash
Gingko or Maidenhair (male)
Sweet Gum
Colorado Spruce
Austrian Pine
White Oak
English Oak
Common Baldcyress
Lacebark Elm
Dawn Redwood
Shellbark Hickory
Atlas Cedar
Autumn Applause White Ash
Marshall Seedless Green Ash
Yellow Poplar or Tulip Tree
Norway Spruce
White Pine
London Plane Tree
Pin Oak
Red Oak
Liberty American Elm
Little-Leaf Lindon
 
APPENDIX B: UNDESIRABLE TREES
Undesirable Trees Comments
Undesirable Trees Comments
Maple             Over planted in Florence Urban Forest at present time
Ailanthus         Weak Wooded
Modesto Ash       Sidewalk problems
Mulberry          Sidewalk problems
Cottonwood        Weak wooded
Lombardy Poplar   Insects and diseases
Black Locust      Diseases
American Elm      Insects and Diseases
Siberian Elm      Weak wooded
Willow            Aggressive roots
CHAPTER 100: CURFEW
Section
General Provisions
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Establishment of curfew hours
   
100.03   Offenses
   
100.04   Defenses
   
100.05   City Coordinator review and report
Enforcement
   
100.20   Enforcement
 
   
100.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CURFEW HOURS."
      (1)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the
following day; and
      (2)   The hours between 1:00 a.m., prevailing time and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday and Sunday.
   "EMERGENCY." An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, without limitation,
fires, floods, natural disasters, automobile accidents and any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   "ESTABLISHMENT." Any privately owned place of business, which is operated
for a profit, and to which the public is invited, including, without
limitation, any place of amusement or entertainment.
   "GUARDIAN."
      (1)   Any person who is the guardian of the person of a minor, pursuant
to a court order or judgment; or
      (2)   Any public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court order.
   "MINOR." Any person under eighteen years of age.
   "OPERATOR." Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment, including, without
limitation, the members or partners of an association or partnership, and the
officers of a corporation.
   "PARENT" means and includes the natural parent, adoptive parent and step
parent of a person under eighteen years of age; and also any person at least
eighteen years of age who has been authorized and appointed by a parent or
guardian to have the care, custody and control of a child or ward thereof under
eighteen years of age.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, without limitation, streets, highways, parks,
playgrounds and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses,
office buildings and transportation facilities.
   "REMAIN."
      (1)   To linger or stay; or
      (2)   To fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by any peace
officer, or the owner, tenant, operator or any other person in control of the
premises.
   "SERIOUS BODILY INJURY." A bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
§ 100.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF CURFEW HOURS.
   The following curfew hours for minors are hereby established by, in and for
the city as follows:
   (A)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the following
day; and
   (B)   The hours between 1:00 a.m., prevailing time, and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
§ 100.03 OFFENSES.
   During the curfew hours established hereby:
   (A)   No minor shall remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment; and
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any minor shall knowingly permit or allow, by
insufficient control or supervision, or otherwise, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment; and
   (C)   No owner, operator or employee of an establishment shall knowingly
permit, or allow by insufficient supervision and control, or otherwise, any
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.04 DEFENSES.
   The following circumstances are hereby established as affirmative defenses
to any criminal or civil proceedings for any violation of this chapter:
   (A)   The minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the parent or guardian thereof; or
      (2)   In a motor vehicle in the course of interstate travel; or
      (3)   Engaged in any employment activity, or going to or returning home
from any employment activity, without any detour or stop; or
      (4)   Involved in an emergency; or
      (5)   On the sidewalk abutting the residence of the minor, or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor, without any complaint by the next door
neighbor to the City Police Department about the presence of the minor thereon;
or
      (6)   Attending any school or religious activity, or any recreational
activity supervised by the adults and sponsored by either the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from any such activity, without any detour
or stop; or
      (7)   Exercising any rights secured and protected by the first amendment
to the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise or religion,
freedom of speech and the right of peaceable assembly; or
      (8)   Married or otherwise emancipated; or
   (B)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment has promptly
notified the police department of the city that minor was present on the
premises during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
§ 100.05 CITY COORDINATOR REVIEW AND REPORT.
   Twelve months after the enactment of this chapter, the City Coordinator
shall review the enforcement thereof, and report and make recommendation to the
City Council regarding the effectiveness thereof and the continuing need
therefor. The report of the City Coordinator shall specifically include the
following information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing this chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the police department; and
   (B)   The impact of the enforcement of this chapter on crime statistics; and
   (C)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for violations of this
chapter; and
   (D)   The city's net cost of enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 100.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before enforcing any provision of this chapter by a citation, arrest,
or other custodial activity, the enforcing officer(s) shall inquire of the
person suspected of being a minor as to the actual age of that person and his
or her reason and purpose for remaining or otherwise being in a public place or
establishment during the curfew hours.
   (B)   No enforcing officer shall enforce any provision of this chapter by
any citation, arrest or other custodial activity unless the officer reasonably
believes from the responses of the person suspected of being a minor or any
other circumstances, that an offense and violation of this chapter has
occurred; and that there are no defenses to the enforcement of this chapter as
described herein.
   (C)   In the enforcement of this chapter, all enforcing officers shall
comply with the duties identified in KRS 610.200 through 610.280; and shall
also comply with the provisions of all other applicable laws, including,
without limitation, the Kentucky Unified Juvenile Code in KRS Chapters 600 to
645.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term
of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation of the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-15-95, passed 9-12-95)
CHAPTER 101: NOISE
Section
   
101.01   Unlawful noises
   
101.02   Disturbing and unnecessary noises
   
101.03   Exceptions
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 UNLAWFUL NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise
which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace and safety of others, within the limits of the city.
(Ord. O-16-95, passed 9-19-95)
Penalty, see § 101.99
§ 101.02 DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns, Signaling Devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (B)   Radios, Phonographs, and the like. The using, operating, or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio, stereo, television, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation of this section.
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is case upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds, and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
stationary engine, motor boat, motorcycle or motor vehicle except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or excessive noises
therefrom. Exhaust noise which is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet
from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (G)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   (H)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs
are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
court street.
(Ord. O-16-95, passed 9-19-95)
Penalty, see § 101.99
§ 101.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work.
   (B)   The discharge of firearms by members of the police department or other
sworn peace officers.
(Ord. O-16-95, passed 9-19-95)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term
of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation of the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-16-95, passed 9-19-95)
CHAPTER 102: CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
Section
   
102.01   Chronic nuisance unlawful
   
102.02   Definitions
   
102.03   City enforcement
   
102.04   Utility service prohibition
   
102.05   Procedure - resident enforcement
   
102.06   Summary closure
 
   
102.99   Penalty
§ 102.01 CHRONIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Any Property within the City of Florence, Kentucky, that becomes a
chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, is in violation of this chapter
and subject to its remedies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit property under his or
her ownership or control to be a chronic nuisance property, as defined herein,
and such person shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to its
remedies.
   (C)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute “unlawful purpose” or
“unlawful manner” as those terms are used in the Occupational Tax Ordinance
(Ordinance No. O-14-83), §
110.08 of this code, dealing with revocation or suspension of licenses.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14) Penalty, see § 102.99
§ 102.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.” Property on which three or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 60 day period or on which 12 or
more nuisance activities exist or have occurred during any 12 month period.
   “CITY COUNCIL.” The City Council of the City of Florence, Kentucky.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A Code Enforcement Officer as defined in KRS
65.8805.
   “CONTROL.” The authority to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or
govern property, or conduct what occurs on a property.
   “DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.” Physical injury, serious physical injury, sexual abuse,
assault, or the infliction of fear of imminent physical injury, serious
physical injury, sexual abuse, or assault between family members or members of
an unmarried couple as defined in KRS 403.720.
   “GOOD CAUSE.” Circumstances beyond the ability of a Person acting with
reasonable care and diligence to control.
   “MULTIPLE UNIT DWELLINGS.” If the chronic nuisance property consists of
multiple unit dwellings or mixed uses and the nuisance activities have occurred
solely within a unit or units, the authority to issue an order to close and
vacate is restricted to the unit or units in which the nuisance activities have
occurred and does not extend to any other unit at the chronic nuisance
property. This definition does not apply to hotels, motels, or other places of
lodging.
   “NUISANCE ACTIVITIES.”
      (1)   Any of the following activities, behaviors or conduct when same are
permitted to occur on property:
         (a)   Harassment, as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080;
         (b)   Public intoxication or alcohol intoxication, as defined in KRS
525.100 or KRS 222.202;
         (c)   Rioting, inciting to riot, unlawfully assembling, or disorderly
conduct as defined in KRS 525.010 or KRS 525.060;
         (d)   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040, or 507.050;
         (e)   Rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, indecent
exposure, or unlawful use of an electronic device to induce a minor to engage
in sexual activities, as defined in KRS 510.010 through 510.155;
         (f)   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic threatening,
criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as defined in KRS
508.010 through 508.160;
         (g)   Unsworn falsification to authorities or giving peace officer a
false name or address, as defined in KRS 523.100 or 523.110;
         (h)   Obstruction of public administration, as defined in KRS 519.010
through 519.070;
         (i)   Resisting arrest, fleeing or evading police, or hindering
prosecution or apprehension, as defined in KRS 520.090 through 520.130;
         (j)   Promoting gambling, conspiracy to promote gambling, possession
of gambling records, or any other illegal gambling activities, as defined in
KRS Chapter 528;
         (k)   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting prostitution,
or human trafficking, as defined in KRS 529.010 through 529.110;
         (l)   Endangering the welfare of a minor or unlawful transaction with
a minor as defined in KRS 530.060 through 530.080;
         (m)   Distribution of obscene matter promoting sale of obscenity, or
voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110;
         (n)   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300 through
531.370;
         (o)   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010
through 218A.1444;
         (p)   Weapons related offenses, as defined in KRS 527.010 through
527.210;
         (q)   Alcohol related offenses, as defined in KRS Chapters 241, 242,
243 and 244;
         (r)   Animal control violations, as defined in Florence Code of
Ordinances
Chapter 91;
         (s)   Fireworks violations, as defined in Florence Code of Ordinances
98.15 through
98.21;
         (t)   Curfew violations, as defined in Florence Code of Ordinances
Chapter 100;
         (u)   Noise violations, as defined in Florence Code of Ordinances
Chapter 101;
         (v)   Sale of alcoholic beverages violations, as defined in Florence
Code of Ordinances
Chapter 111;
         (w)   Discharging air rifle or discharging firearms violations, as
defined in Florence Code of Ordinances §§
131.01 through
131.02;
         (x)   Nude performance violations, as defined in Florence Code of
Ordinances §
133.01; or
         (y)   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the
activities, behaviors or conduct listed in this section.
      (2)   To qualify, all “NUISANCE ACTIVITIES” must be based on either:
         (a)   Personal observation of a Police Officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer; or
         (b)   A determination by a Police Officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer, either after an investigation or following a sworn statement of a
person who personally witnessed the alleged incident that the alleged “NUISANCE
ACTIVITIES” did, in fact, occur.
      (3)   For purposes of this chapter, “NUISANCE ACTIVITY” shall not include
conduct where the person in charge is the victim of a crime and had no control
over the criminal act.
      (4)   For purposes of this chapter, domestic violence calls for service
are not considered “NUISANCE ACTIVITIES”.
   “PERMIT.” To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   “PERSON.” Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company or other entity capable of owning,
occupying or using property in the city.
   “PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY.” Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize, or visit, or waited to enter, patronize, or visit a property, or any
person present on a property. “PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY” includes,
without limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, the person in charge, or an owner of a
property.
   “PERSON IN CHARGE.” Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control. When an owner of the property and the occupant
of a property under his or her ownership or control are not the same person,
the person in charge shall include both such persons.
   “POLICE CHIEF.” The Chief of Police of the City of Florence, Kentucky, or
his or her designee.
   “PROPERTY.” Any property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or
residence, parking area, loading area, landscaping, building, or structure or
any separate part, unit, or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether
or not permanent. For property consisting of more than one unit, property may
be limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring, but includes areas of the property used
in common by all units of property including without limitation other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading and
landscaping.
   “RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD.” A real property owner of property upon which is
located one or more dwelling units leased or otherwise rented to tenants solely
for residential purposes, or a mobile home park or other permanent or semi
permanent site at which lots are leased or otherwise rented to tenants for the
parking of a manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle that is
used solely for residential purposes. “RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD” does not include
the owner of a hotel, motel, or a college or university dormitory.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
§ 102.03 CITY ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer receives information
documenting the existence of activities that qualify as nuisance activities:
      (1)   The Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer shall independently
review such report(s) to determine whether a chronic nuisance property as
defined herein is established by the information.
      (2)   Upon a determination that a chronic nuisance property exists, the
Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation to
the person in charge that the property has been determined to be a chronic
nuisance property and request an abatement plan from the person in charge.
      (3)   The notice to the person in charge, shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         (b)   A statement that the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer
has determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to this determination;
         (c)   A demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to
the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer by either describing the actions
the person in charge intends to take to abate the nuisance activities
(abatement plan) or indicating good cause as to why the person in charge cannot
abate the nuisance activities;
         (d)   That an agreed abatement plan must be reached with the Police
Chief or Code Enforcement Officer within 30 days from the date of the notice of
determination of chronic nuisance property;
         (e)   That if the nuisance activities are not abated and good cause
for failure to abate is not shown, enforcement action may be initiated
including civil penalties and/or fines assessed of not less than $500 nor more
than $5,000, revocation or suspension of the occupational license, a civil
action foreclosure of the property, and/or any other legal remedy available
under the laws of the city or Commonwealth of Kentucky;
         (f)   That permitting the existence of a chronic nuisance property is
a violation of this chapter; and
         (g)   That the above remedies are in addition to those otherwise
provided by law.
      (4)   The notice may be delivered in person, or sent registered mail with
return receipt requested. The notice may be delivered to the Property itself,
or to the mailing address of the owner of the Property as listed on the city
tax roll, or to any other address that is likely to give the person in charge
notice of the determination of the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer.
      (5)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate or
otherwise affect the proceedings under this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement action under this chapter shall consist of:
      (1)   (a)   Issuance of a citation to the Code Enforcement Board of the
city following the procedure outlined in Ordinance No. (O-7-02) §§
33.70 through
33.83.
         (b)   Violations of this ordinance are hereby designated as civil
offenses. The Code Enforcement Board may impose a civil penalty for each
violation of this ordinance of not less than $500, nor more than $5,000; and/or
      (2)   If applicable, revocation or suspension of the occupational license
after hearing before City Council as provided in the Occupational License Tax
Ordinance; and/or
      (3)   A civil action foreclosure of the property; and/or
      (4)   Any other legal remedy available under the laws of the city or
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (C)   The Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer may initiate enforcement
action where:
      (1)   The Person in charge fails to respond within ten days from the date
of the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police Chief
or Code Enforcement Officer; or
      (2)   No agreeable written abatement plan is reached within 30 days from
the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police Chief or
Code Enforcement Officer and the person in charge fails to establish one of the
affirmative defenses provided herein; or
      (3)   The person in charge fails to abate the nuisance activities from
the property as required by the agreed abatement plan; or
      (4)   The person in charge fails to comply continuously with all
conditions of the written abatement plan for a period of one year.
   (D)   When the person in charge includes both a person with actual or
constructive possession of the property and a legal owner of the Property, both
people must agree to any proposed abatement plan within the time allotted under
division (A)(3)(d) of this section. Failure of both to agree to a proposed
abatement plan shall result in a finding by the Police Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer that the abatement plan is not agreeable under division (C)
(2) of this section.
   (E)   Failure to respond, failure to abate the nuisance activities, or
failure to propose an abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of
cooperativeness of the person in charge. Failure to execute or comply with any
abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of good faith in
mitigating or correcting the situation.
   (F)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Police Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer, conduct or statements made in connection with the response
do not constitute an admission that any nuisance activities have occurred or
are occurring. This subsection does not require exclusion of any evidence that
is otherwise admissible or offered for any other purpose.
   (G)   Residential landlord affirmative defense. A residential landlord has
an absolute defense to a charge under this chapter if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the basis for the charge is the actions or
omissions of their tenant(s) and the residential landlord establishes all of
the following:
      (1)   That the residential landlord undertakes a reasonably appropriate
screening process for prospective tenants including diligence into the criminal
background of prospective tenants, which shall include, at a minimum, an online
search and inquiry with the tenant into their criminal background;
      (2)   That the residential landlord include language in their leases with
tenants that provides that violations of federal, state, or local laws by
tenants or their guests is grounds for eviction with 30 days or less notice;
and
      (3)   That the residential landlord, upon written notice by the city that
a nuisance activity has occurred on their property within the prior 30 days,
commences an eviction action against the tenant whose action or omission forms
the basis of the charge, and diligently prosecutes that action to completion,
irrespective of any ultimate ruling by a court on the merits of that action. A
residential landlord shall not be responsible for prosecuting a forcible entry
and detainer action against the tenant or their guests whose action or omission
forms the basis of the charge if the city fails to give the notice provided in
this section.
   (H)   Good cause affirmative defense. Any person charged under this chapter
has an absolute defense to a charge under this chapter if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that:
      (1)   The person charged has taken all appropriate actions to deter and
prevent the nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge on their
property;
      (2)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
the result of the actions or omissions of person charged, their authorized
guests or any other person residing in their household; and
      (3)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
permitted by the person charged.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
§ 102.04 UTILITY SERVICE PROHIBITION.
   Upon the failure of the person in charge to comply with an order to close
and vacate, the city may prohibit the furnishing of utility service, to include
but not limited to, gas, electric, water, and heating oil, to the premises by
any public utility holding a franchise to use the streets and public ways of
the city.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
§ 102.05 PROCEDURE - RESIDENT ENFORCEMENT.
   City residents, affected by an alleged chronic nuisance property, may elect
to provide a sworn complaint to the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer
which may be used by the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer in their
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
§ 102.06 SUMMARY CLOSURE.
   The city, through its City Attorney, may also initiate a summary closure
proceeding in the District and/or Circuit Court. Such an action shall be based
on evidence showing that nuisance activities exist or have occurred on the
property and that action is necessary to avoid a threat to public welfare and
safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of summary closure shall be governed by
the provisions of applicable Kentucky law for obtaining temporary restraining
orders. As part of any summary closure order, the district/circuit court may
also revoke or suspend the occupational license of any person conducting any
business upon the property where the chronic nuisance exists.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
§ 102.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed the amount set forth in KRS
534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the periods set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed for the offense. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-1-14, passed 1-28-14)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         Chapter
            
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
            
111.    SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
            
112.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
            
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
            
114.   SHOPPING CART REGULATIONS
            
115.   TRADE, OCCUPATION, OR PROFESSION LICENSE TAX
            
116.   SOLICITORS
            
117.   HOTELS AND MOTELS
            
118.   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
            
119.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
            
120.   CABLE SERVICES
            
121.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
            
122. MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Deposit of license fees
   
110.02   (Reserved)
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   License application procedures
   
110.05   License taxes established
   
110.06   Duplicate licenses
   
110.07   Annual renewal of licenses
   
110.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
110.09   Effective date
   
110.10   Cooperative program for handling occupational licenses
   
110.11   Credit for employees
   
110.12   Definitions
   
110.13   Apportionment of gross receipts
   
110.14   Applicability of federal law
   
110.15   Cessation of business
   
110.16   Use of federal tax year
   
110.17   Due date of return, copy of federal return
   
110.18   Extensions
   
110.19   Tax due when return filed
   
110.20   Audits
   
110.21   Claims for credit on refund
   
110.22   Employer to withhold taxes
   
110.23   Employer to report tax withheld, liability for failure to withhold or
pay tax
   
110.24   Personal liability
   
110.25   Application for refund by employee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEPOSIT OF LICENSE FEES.
   All license fees collected under this chapter shall be paid into the general
fund of the city and apportioned as other funds.
(Ord. O-67-60, passed 6-30-60; Am. Ord.O-17-82, passed 6-8-82)
§ 110.02 (RESERVED)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, employment,
business, or profession (which terms are hereinafter collectively called
"business") hereinafter specified, shall be required to obtain the occupational
license and pay a license tax therefor herein provided, prior to beginning to
engage in the business and thereafter, on or before the fifteenth day of the
fourth month following the end of the taxable year of the business entity.
   (B)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have
the license year for which they are issued written on the face of the license
in large figures, and it shall be the duty of each person to whom a license is
issued to keep the license or a duplicate thereof as herein provided for,
posted in a conspicuous place in his place of business, where it will be at all
times exposed to the public view.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall authorize any person to
engage in any business other than the one for which the license was issued,
unless transferred by the City Clerk as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   Where, under any ordinance, statute, or law, a special form of
application is required or bond demanded prior to entering into any business
for which a license is applied for under the provisions of this chapter, the
City Clerk shall not issue the license hereunder until such special application
has been made or such bond properly executed.
   (E)   Full time students who are self-employed and under the age of 22 may
obtain an exemption from the occupational license requirement of this chapter
by making application to the City Clerk and obtaining a statement of exemption.
   (F)   Violations of the provisions of this section are hereby designated as
civil offenses enforceable by the city Code Enforcement Board under the
provisions of §§
33.70 et seq., including civil fines under the provision of §
33.81.
(Ord. O-67-60, passed 6-30-60; Am. Ord. O-17-82, passed 6-8-82; Am. Ord. O-14-
83, passed 4-26-83; Am. Ord. O-25-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed
11-15- 94; Am. Ord. O-27-07, passed 12- 11-07; Am. Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-
16) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of license, see KRS 85.220
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall submit an application for such license in writing to the
City Clerk on forms provided by the City Clerk, or as specified in the
agreement between the City of Florence and the County of Boone pursuant to §
110.10(B). Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name in which the business will be conducted; the address at
which the business will be conducted; the mailing address of the business if
different from location; the business telephone number; and the federal tax
identification number of the business.
      (2)   The name of the owners of the business and: if the owner is an
individual, the name, residence address, telephone number and social security
number; if the owner is a partnership, the name, residence address, telephone
number and social security number of each partner; and if the owner is a
corporation, the name and address of the registered process agent, the
president, a vice-president, secretary, and treasurer.
      (3)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly
authorized representative of the business who is responsible for operating and
managing the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached at night in case of
an emergency.
      (4)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted.
      (5)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in
the city.
      (6)   The accounting period of the business.
      (7)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for the
business in the city during the license year.
      (8)   A statement as to whether any of the persons listed in response to
(2) or (3) above has ever had an occupational license or other similar business
license denied or revoked or suspended in this city or in any other city,
county, or state. If the answer is affirmative, full details of the incident or
incidents must be given.
      (9)   A statement as to whether any of the persons listed in response to
(2) or (3) above has ever been convicted of a felony; a misdemeanor for which a
jail sentence may be imposed; any other crime in which moral turpitude is
involved; or any other crime which directly relates to a business of the type
for which this license is sought. If such a conviction has occurred, full
details must be given.
       (10)    A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree,
certification, or similar document is a legal prerequisite to the conduct of or
employment in the business.
       (11)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous materials kept at
the business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets,
guard dogs, or other animals usually kept therein and any other information
which the applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency
personnel responding to a call to said premises.
       (12)   Such additional information as the City Clerk may find reasonably
necessary.
       (13)   The application form shall contain the following statement:
      WARNING: Statements made in this application are subject to verification
and false or intentionally misleading statements may be cause for denial of the
license applied for or, if a license is granted, revocation thereof upon
discovery.
       (14)   The application shall be signed by a person duly authorized to
act for the applicant who shall certify his or her authority to so act and that
the statements on the form are true and complete.
       (15)   An application which does not contain all of the required
information shall not be accepted.
   (B)   The giving of false or intentionally misleading information on the
application shall be grounds for denial of the license applied for or, if a
license has been granted, revocation thereof upon discovery.
   (C)   All information furnished or secured under the authority of this
chapter shall be treated and considered as confidential and privileged except
for official purposes, unless otherwise treated by judicial decree or specific
provisions of law, and shall not be open to public inspection.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied by the amount of the license fee
provided for herein. The City Clerk shall issue a receipt for the amount of the
fee tendered with the application, provided that such receipt shall not be
construed as approval of the application; nor shall it entitle the applicant to
open or maintain the business for which the license is sought. Such fee shall
be refunded if the license applied for is denied.
   (E)   All applications for licenses hereunder shall be subject to review by
the City Coordinator who shall endorse his decision for approval or denial or
other disposition on the application form. The City Coordinator may refer an
application to any other official, employee, or department of the city as he
deems appropriate for review and recommendation. The City Coordinator may
require such additional information from the applicant as the City Coordinator
reasonably determines to be necessary in order to make a decision on the
application. The request for such additional information shall be made in
writing to the applicant within the time prescribed for decision by the City
Coordinator on the application. The City Coordinator shall return the
application to the City Clerk with his decision endorsed thereon within 15
business days of date on which the application was filed or within 15 business
days of receipt of such additional information or documentation.
   (F)   The following are the general standards relative to the qualifications
required of every applicant for a license hereunder. All such standards shall
be considered and applied by the City Coordinator in making a decision on each
application.
      (1)   Where the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required to
have any license, permit, degree, certification, or other similar document,
under the provisions of any applicable city ordinance, county ordinance, or
state or federal laws, which is a legal prerequisite to the conduct of or
employment in the business for which application is made for the license
hereunder, such license, permit, degree, certification, or similar document
shall have been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant
prior to issuance of the license hereunder and evidence of such issuance
satisfactory to the City Clerk shall be provided by the applicant.
      (2)   The criminal record of the persons listed in divisions (A)(2) and
(A)(3) above shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony; a misdemeanor for which a jail sentence may be imposed; any other
crime in which moral turpitude is involved; or any other crime which directly
relates to a business of the type for which the license is sought. In
determining if a conviction directly relates to the business for which the
license is sought, the City Coordinator shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the individual
was convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of regulating the
business for which the license was sought.
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity, and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business for which the license was sought.
         (d)   The extent to which the individual has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (3)   The City Coordinator shall consider whether the business for which
the license is sought is of such a type that experience is shown that the
operation of such business, unless closely supervised, has a high probability
of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the
health, safety, morals, and welfare of the citizens of the city or constituting
a nuisance.
      (4)   The City Coordinator shall consider the business history of the
applicant including:
         (a)   Whether the persons listed in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above
have been denied a license or had a license revoked in the city or a similar
license in any other city, county, or state and the reasons therefor.
         (b)   Whether complaints have been received by the city of the
business practices or responsibility of such persons and the disposition of
such complaints.
      (5)   The City Coordinator shall consider whether the persons listed in
divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above are indebted to the city for delinquent
taxes, assessment, fines, or similar obligations.
      (6)   The City Coordinator shall consider whether the business for which
the license is sought complies with all zoning laws and regulations of the
city, affecting the proposed location of the business.
      (7)   The City Coordinator shall consider whether the premises at which
the business for which the license is sought is proposed to be located complies
with all building and fire code requirements and whether a certificate of
occupancy, if required, has been obtained.
   (G)   After such review of the application, the City Coordinator may either:
      (1)   Approve the application. If the application is so approved, the
City Clerk shall issue the license.
      (2)   Approve the application conditionally.
         (a)   If the application is approved conditionally, the City
Coordinator shall determine such conditions as he may reasonably deem necessary
to carry out the intent of and properly administer this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   The requirement that the applicant post a bond, with surety
acceptable to the City Coordinator, in a reasonable amount determined by the
City Coordinator to insure compliance with laws and ordinances.
            2.   The requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a
specified date.
            3.   The requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection
of certain parts of the premises or certain records.
            4.   The requirement that certain alterations be made in the
premises before a specified date.
         (b)   Such conditions shall be set forth in writing by the City
Coordinator and attached to the application. The applicant shall be promptly
notified of the conditions and must accept the conditions by signing such
writing prior to the issuance of the license. If the applicant refuses to
accept the conditions, the license shall be denied and notification shall be
made to the applicant as provided in division (3) below. Upon such acceptance
of the conditions by the applicant and performance by the applicant of such of
the conditions as are to be performed prior to the issuance of the license, the
City Clerk shall issue the conditional license.
      (3)   Deny the license.
         (a)   If the license is denied, the City Coordinator shall notify the
applicant in writing, by certified mail at the address listed on the
application:
            1. That the license has been denied; and
            2.   Of the grounds and reasons for the denial; and
            3.   That the applicant has the right to appeal to the City Council
if written request is made within 20 days after receipt of this notice as
herein set out.
         (b)   If the license is denied solely because of the prior conviction
of a crime, such notice shall also inform the applicant:
            1.   Of the earliest date reapplication may be made for the
license; and
            2.   That evidence of rehabilitation may be considered upon
reapplication.
   (H)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City Coordinator hereunder
shall have the right to appeal such decision to the City Council. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing a written statement of appeal with the City Clerk
within 20 days of receipt of the notice of the decision of the City Coordinator
to be appealed from. Such written statement shall include a statement of the
grounds relied upon to avoid such decision and shall have a copy of the notice
of such decisions attached. The City Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal
within 30 days of the filing of the statement of appeal. The Mayor shall set a
time and place for such hearing and shall notify the appealing person of such
time and place by certified mail or personal service not less than ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing. The order of the City Council on the
appeal shall be final.
   CITY OF FLORENCE, KENTUCKY
   APPLICATION FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE
1. Business name:                                       
2. Address at which business located:                                
                                             
3. Business mailing address (if different from above):
                          
                                             
4. Business telephone number:                                   
5. State Tax Identification Number:                                
6. Type of business entity:                 Individual
                             Partnership
                             Corporation
                             Other-specify                 
7.    Owner(s) of Business: If an individual, give name, date of birth,
residence address, home telephone number and social security number; if a
partnership, give name, residence address, home telephone number and social
security number and D.O.B. of each partner; if a corporation, give name and
address, home telephone number, and social security number of the President,
Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer.
                               RESIDENCE
NAME    D.O.B       TITLE       ADDRESS          TELEPHONE NO.    S.S.#   
                                              
                                          
                                          
                                          
8.   List a duly authorized representative of the business who is responsible
for operating and managing the business in the City:
   Name:             D.O.B. & S.S.#          TITLE             
   Residence Address:                                    
   Home Telephone No.:              Night Emergency Telephone No.          
9.    Describe in full the operations and activities of the business:
                                              
                                              
                                             
10. Date business began or will begin operation in Florence:
                       
11.   Accounting Period:               Calendar Year
                            Fiscal Year-specify period              
12.   Number of employees working or expected to be working during license
year:             
13.   Have any of the persons listed in Items 7 or 8 above ever had an
occupational license or similar business license denied, or revoked or
suspended in this City or any other City or State?         Yes
                     No
   If yes, give full details at Item 17 below.
14.   Have any of the persons listed in Items 7 or 8 above ever been convicted
of a felony, or a misdemeanor for which a jail sentence may be imposed, or any
crime which involves moral turpitude, or any other crime which directly relates
to a business of the type described in Item 9 above?
                     Yes
                     No
   If yes, give full details at Item 17 below.
15.   Are hazardous materials or guard dogs, pets or other animals at the
premises? If so, specify. Give any other information about the premises which
would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel responding to a call
there:
                                          
                                             
16.   Is there any license, permit, degree, certification or similar document
which the persons listed in Items 7 or 8 above or any employee of the business
must possess as a legal prerequisite in the conduct of or employment in this
business?         Yes
                                              No
   If yes, describe:                                    
                                             
17.   Additional information:                                  
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                            
   WARNING: Statements made in this application are subject to verification and
false or intentionally misleading statements may be cause for denial of the
license applied for or, if a license is granted, revocation thereof upon
discovery.
                      I hereby certify that I am duly
                      authorized to act for the applicant and
                      that the statements contained on this
                      application are true and complete.
                                       
                      Signature
                                       
                      Title
                                       
                      Date
                                           
   Issuance of the License is:
          Approved
          Approved Conditionally (conditions attached)
          Denied (notification to applicant attached)
         Dated this       day of       , 198       .
                                    
                   CITY COORDINATOR
(Ord. O-14-83, passed 4-26-83; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. O-5-
95, passed 4-11-95)
§ 110.05 LICENSE TAXES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Every business entity engaged in any business in the city shall, at
the time the license herein required is obtained, pay the annual license tax on
the taxable gross receipts derived from such activity as herein computed.
   (B)   Every business entity shall compute and pay said license tax in the
same form of business entity (i.e., corporation, partnership, etc.) as they
report income to the federal government.
   (C)   The license tax shall be computed and is hereby levied in the amount
of 0.1% of taxable gross receipts with a minimum license tax of $40 per year
and maximum license tax of $10,000 per year.
   (D)   The license tax for each license year shall be computed based upon the
income shown on the last federal income tax return filed by the business entity
liable for the license tax prior to the license year for which the license is
obtained. A new business, defined as one which has not yet filed a federal
income tax return with respect to income from business operations in the city,
shall estimate license fee based on projected first year income at the time of
obtaining the occupational license and upon filing its first federal income tax
return shall report the applicable amount of income therefrom to the City Clerk
and either pay an additional fee or receive a corresponding credit for the
first license year equal to the difference between the estimated fee paid and
the fee which would have been paid had the amount of such income been known at
the time the license for the first year was obtained. If an underpayment
occurs, then penalty and interest shall be assessed on the amount of the
difference if the licensee underestimates more than 50%.
   (E)   The license tax as computed and levied in (E) above shall become
effective for the license period beginning July 1, 2002, and shall apply to all
new licenses and renewals of licenses.
(Ord. O-67-60, passed 6-30-60; Am. Ord. O-191-64, passed 6-23-64; Am. Ord. O-
302-67, passed 5-9-67; Am. Ord. O-17-82, passed 6-8-82; Am. Ord. O-18-82,
passed 6-8-82; Am. Ord. O-25-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-17-84, passed 6-26-
84; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. O-6-96, passed 5-14-96; Am.
Ord. 0-3-98, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. O-13-02, passed 6-25-02; Am. Ord. O-27-
07, passed 12-11-07)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.06 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   In order for any person, company, partnership, or corporation, which
conducts business in the city at more than one location, to comply with that
portion of §
110.03, which requires the license to be posted at a conspicuous place in the
place of business, the City Clerk shall issue a duplicate of the license to
such person, company, partnership, or corporation for each such additional
location. The City Clerk shall charge each such person, company, partnership,
or corporation a fee of $25 for each duplicate license so issued.
(Ord. O-25-83, passed 8-23-83)
§ 110.07 ANNUAL RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   The application and review of application provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to annual renewal of licenses issued hereunder unless there is a
material change in the ownership of, location of, or type of business conducted
by a business for which a license is issued hereunder; or unless the license
holder is indebted to the city for delinquent taxes, assessments, payroll
withholding, fines or similar obligations. In the event of such a material
change or indebtedness, the licenseholder must file an application and same
must be approved as herein provided prior to such renewal.
(Ord. O-14-83, passed 4-26-83; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the City Council, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement contained in the
application for the license.
      (2)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional license.
      (3)   The criminal conviction of any of the persons listed in §
100.04(A)(2) or (3) of a felony; a misdemeanor for which a jail sentence may be
imposed; any other crime in which moral turpitude is involved; or any other
crime which directly relates to a business of the type for which the license
was issued. Provided, however, that in making the decision, the City Council
shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the individual
was convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of regulating the
business for which the license was issued;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity, and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business for which the license was issued;
         (d)   The extent to which the individual has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (4)   The revocation, suspension, or expiration without renewal of any
document, described in §
110.04 (F)(1), which was issued to or held by any of the persons described in §
110.04 (A)(2) or (3), or any employee of the business for which the license was
issued.
      (5)   The conduct, by the owner or any employee, of the business for
which the license was issued in an unlawful manner.
      (6)   Permitting or allowing the premises, on which the business for
which the license was issued are located or the premises adjacent thereto under
the control of the licenseholder, to be used for any unlawful purpose or in an
unlawful manner.
   (B)   The City Council shall hold a hearing on the question of revocation or
suspension of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter. The
Mayor shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall notify the affected
licenseholder in writing, by certified mail or personal service, of the time
and place of said hearing not less than ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing. Such written notice shall set forth specifically the grounds alleged
for the revocation or suspension and shall inform the licenseholder that the
hearing may result in the revocation or suspension of the license. The order of
the City Council on such revocation or suspension shall be final.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension of a license hereunder shall be in addition
to the imposition of any other penalty prescribed by this chapter or any other
ordinance, statute, or law.
(Ord. O-67-60, passed 6-30-60; Am. Ord. O-17-82, passed 6-8-82; Am. Ord. O-14-
83, passed 4-26-83)
§ 110.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of Ordinance O-25-83 (§§
110.02,
110.03,
110.05, and
110.06) shall be effective July 1, l983. The license tax herein provided for
license year 1983-84 shall be due and payable on October 1, 1983, and if not
paid shall incur the penalties provided in §
110.99 after November 1, 1983. Each person, firm, company, partnership, or
corporation may deduct from said 1983-84 license tax all amounts previously
paid for the 1983-84 license year for the occupational license under the
provisions of this chapter which were in effect prior to the adoption of
Ordinance O-25-83 (§§
110.02,
110.03,
110.05, and
110.06) together with any "net profits" tax paid for license year 1983-84 under
the provisions of Ordinances O-37-81 and O-43-81 formerly in effect.
(Ord. O-25-83, passed 8-23-83)
§ 110.10 COOPERATIVE PROGRAM FOR HANDLING OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in a cooperative program
(the "Program") with the County of Boone, Kentucky, for handling city and
occupational licenses. The Program will cover occupational licenses,
applications, renewals, and collection of occupational license taxes. The
purpose of the Program is to simplify handling occupational licenses for the
taxpayer. The Program shall include the following elements:
      (1)   One standardized form to be used for applications for both city and
county occupational licenses.
      (2)   A system which would allow the taxpayer the option to file the
application for both licenses at either a designated city office or designated
county office and to pay all license fees connected with the application at
that single office.
      (3)   Use of a single form for renewal of city and county occupational
licenses. This form will also provide for calculation of either business taxes
such as those applicable to the Board of Education or Mental Health. This form
would allow the taxpayer to write a single check for all taxes included on the
form and to make payment at a single location.
      (4)   A system whereby all funds collected will be deposited in a "lock
box" type interest bearing account and distributed to the city, county, and
other applicable taxing authorities at designated intervals.
      (5)   City, county, and other applicable taxing authorities will continue
to have responsibility to review and reconcile occupational license tax returns
and to make any necessary additional collections or refunds.
      (6)   The city and county will continue to have the responsibility for
review of license applications, issuance of licenses, and suspension or
revocation of licenses.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a formal
agreement with the County of Boone and other applicable taxing authorities for
implementation of the Program in accordance with division (A) of this section.
The Program shall commence on January 1, 1996.
(Ord. O-5-95, passed 4-11-95)
§ 110.11 CREDIT FOR EMPLOYEES.
   The city authorizes a credit of its occupational license tax pursuant to the
Kentucky Jobs Development Act (KRS 154.24.010 - 154.24.160, KRS 141.120,
141.350 and KRS 141.407) for and throughout a ten-year period (beginning and
ending as stipulated in the service and technology agreement executed between
the Kentucky Jobs Development Authority and the and the approved company and
tentatively scheduled to begin in September, 2008 through September, 2018) and
equal to 1% on the wages of the new Perot Systems Corporation Kentucky-resident
employees created as part of this Economic Development Project.
(Ord. O-13-04, passed 5-25-04; Am. Ord. O-12-07, passed 6-26-07)
§ 110.12 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
   "BUSINESS ENTITY." Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service organization, or other legal entity through which business
is conducted.
   "COMPENSATION." Wages, salaries, commission, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   "EMPLOYER." Employer as defined in section 3401(d) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
   "FISCAL YEAR." Fiscal year as defined in section 7701 (a)(24) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   "GROSS RECEIPTS." All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods, services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE." The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2004, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2005, that would
otherwise terminate.
   "SALES REVENUE." Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   "TAX," as used in this chapter and "LICENSE FEE", "LICENSE TAX" and
"OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE" as used in other city ordinances dealing with the
occupational license tax or fee of the city, shall have the same meaning as is
afforded to the term "tax" in KRS 67.750 to 67.790.
   "TAX DISTRICT." The city, any other city of the first to fifth class,
county, urban-county, charter county, consolidated local government, school
district, special taxing district, or any other statutorily created entity with
the authority to levy net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license
taxes.
   "TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS." In case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenue both within and without the city means gross receipts as defined
in this section, as apportioned under KRS 67.753.
   "TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS." In case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenue only in the city means gross receipts as defined in this section.
   "TAXABLE YEAR." The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which gross receipts is computed.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.13 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, gross receipts
shall be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.14 APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL LAW.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, computations of gross income and
deductions therefrom, gross receipts or sales, and deductions therefrom,
accounting methods, and accounting procedures shall be as nearly as practicable
identical with those required for federal income tax purposes.
   (B)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (C)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of noting an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.15 CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   If any business entity dissolves or withdraws from the city during any
taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner surrenders or loses its
charter during any taxable year, the dissolution, withdrawal, or loss or
surrender of charter shall not defeat the filing of returns and the assessment
and collection of gross receipts taxes or tax withheld for the period of that
taxable year during which the business entity had gross receipts or tax
withheld in the city.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.16 USE OF FEDERAL TAX YEAR.
   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income tax
return, the gross receipts shall be computed for the purposes of this chapter
on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the federal
government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required for
federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.17 DUE DATE OF RETURN, COPY OF FEDERAL RETURN.
   (A)   All business entities' returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 in each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall me made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing its return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion
of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business
entity to produce for inspection a copy of all statements and schedules in
support thereof. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments
made by the federal government.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.18 EXTENSIONS.
   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than six
months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the tax, requests the extension and pays the amount properly estimated as its
tax. If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.19 TAX DUE WHEN RETURN FILED.
   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as appears
from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time prescribed
for filing the tax return, determined without regard to any extension of time
for filing the return.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.20 AUDITS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context requires otherwise:
      (1)   "CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT" means the date that the
adjustments made by the Internal Revenue Service to net income or gross
receipts as reported on the business entity's federal income tax return become
final and unappealable; and
      (2)   "FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT" means the revenue
agent's report or other documents reflecting the final and appealable
adjustments made by the Internal Revenue Service.
   (B)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit it. If the amount of tax computed by the city is greater than
the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax shall be
assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by the city
within five years from the date the return was filed, except as otherwise
provided in this division (B).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent return
the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates gross
receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts, or both,
which understatement or omission or both is in excess of 25% of the amount of
gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any
time within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this subsection, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
   (C)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (D)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (B) of this section.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.21 CLAIMS FOR CREDIT ON REFUND.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of any tax subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   If any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.20 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division shall be extended accordingly.
      (2)   If the claim for a refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or six months
from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
For the purposes of this division and division (C) of this section, a return
filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be
considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   Exclusive authority to refund or credit overpayment of taxes collected
by the city is vested in the city.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.22 EMPLOYER TO WITHHOLD TAXES.
   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall deduct
and withhold upon the payment of the compensation the tax imposed against the
compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in
accordance with §
110.24.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.23 EMPLOYER TO REPORT TAX WITHHELD, LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO WITHHOLD OR
PAY TAX.
   (A)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under §
110.22 shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter
ending thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of
each quarter make a return and report to the city the tax required to be
withheld, unless the employer is permitted or required to report within a
reasonable time after some other period as determined by the city.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required to be withheld and paid shall be personally and individually liable to
the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be withheld.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld. If the
employer withholds but fails to pay the amounts withheld to the city, the lien
shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were required to be paid. If
the employer fails to withhold, the lien shall commence at the time the
liability of the employer is assessed by the city.
   (D)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax shall annually on
or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a form furnished or
approved by the city a reconciliation of the tax withheld in the city where
compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either copies of federal forms W-
2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or a detailed employee
listing with the required equivalent information as determined by the city
shall be submitted.
   (E)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and license tax
deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee for payment
to the city during the preceding calendar year.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.24 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld hereunder.
   (B)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division who
had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this chapter at the time the taxes become or became due.
   (C)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax
imposed under this chapter shall be liable for the tax notwithstanding the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.25 APPLICATION FOR REFUND BY EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax, refund or credit shall be
made to the employer only to the extent that the amount of the overpayment was
not deducted and withheld by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was made,
no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted the occupational license fee on the compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city to the city, may file for
a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
(Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts shall be subject to
a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
      (1)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
      (2)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for payment.
The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed 25% of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (C)   Every tax provided for in this chapter and all increases, interest,
and penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable,
a personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully makes a
false return, or willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of KRS 67.750 to 67.790, or by the rules of the
city or by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (G)   (1)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of
laws or in any action challenging a tax law of the city.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (G)(1) of this
section by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (3)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (G)(1) of this
section by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. O-67-60, passed 6-30-60; Am. Ord. O-191-64, passed 6-23-64; Am. Ord. O-
17-82, passed 6-8-82; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. O-5-95,
passed 4-11-95; Am. Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
CHAPTER 111: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Types of licenses; fees
   
111.04   Issuance of license
   
111.05   Information required in application
   
111.06   Terms of license
   
111.07   Display of license
   
111.08   State license required
   
111.09   Hours when sales permitted
   
111.10   Violations of state or federal law
   
111.11   City alcoholic beverage control administrator
   
111.12   Appeals and procedures for hearings before the City Administrator
   
111.13   Minors
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see KRS Title XX
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ALCOHOL.” Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirit of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process it is produced.
   “ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE” or “AWOL DEVICE.”
      (1)   Any device, machine, or process that mixes liquor, spirits, or any
other alcohol product with pure oxygen or by any other means produces a
vaporized alcoholic product used for human consumption.
      (2)   “ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE” or “AWOL DEVICE” does not include an
inhaler, nebulizer, atomizer, or other device that is designed and intended by
the manufacturer to dispense a prescribed or over-the-counter medical or a
device installed and used by a licensee under this chapter to demonstrate the
aroma of an alcoholic beverage.
   “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.” Every liquid, solid, powder, or crystal whether
patented or not, containing alcohol in an amount in excess of more than 1% of
alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes. It includes every
spurious or imitation liquor sold as, or under any name commonly used for
alcoholic beverages, whether containing any alcohol or not. It does not include
the following products:
      (1)   Medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with formulas
prescribed by the United States pharmacopoeia. National Formulary, or the
American Institute of Homeopathy;
      (2)   Patented, patent, and proprietary medicines;
      (3)   Toilet, medicinal, and antiseptic preparations and solutions;
      (4)   Flavoring extracts and syrups;
      (5)   Denatured alcohol or denatured rum;
      (6)   Vinegar and preserved sweet cider;
      (7)   Wine for sacramental purposes; and
      (8)   Alcohol unfit for beverage purposes that is to be sold for
legitimate external use.
   “AUTOMOBILE RACE TRACK.” A facility primarily used for vehicle racing that
has a seating capacity of at least thirty thousand (30,000) people.
   “BED AND BREAKFAST.” A one (1) family dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Has guest rooms or suites used, rented, or hired out for occupancy
or that are occupied for sleeping purposes by persons not members of the
single-family unit;
      (2)   Holds a permit under KRS Chapter 219; and
      (3)   Has an innkeeper who resides on the premises or property adjacent
to the premises during periods of occupancy.
   “BOARD.” The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board created by KRS 241.030;
   “BOTTLE.” Any container which is used for holding alcoholic beverages for
the use and sale of alcoholic beverages at retail.
   “BREWER.” Any person who manufactures malt beverages or owns, occupies,
carries on, works, or conducts any brewery, either alone or though an agent.
   “BREWERY.” Any place or premises where malt beverages are manufactured for
sale, and includes all offices, granaries, mash rooms, cooling rooms, vaults,
yards, and storerooms connected with the premises; or where any part of the
process of the manufacture of malt beverages is carried on; or where any
apparatus connected with manufacture is kept or used; or whether any of the
products of brewing or fermentation are stored or kept;
   “BUILDING CONTAINING LICENSED PREMISES.” The licensed premises themselves
and includes the land, tract of land, or parking lot in which the premises are
contained, and any part of any building connected by direct access or by an
entrance which is under the ownership or control of the licensee by lease
holdings or ownership.
   “CATERER.” A person operating a food services business that prepares food in
a licensed and inspected commissary, transports the food and alcoholic
beverages to the caterer’s designated and inspected banquet hall or to an
agreed location and serves the food and alcoholic beverages pursuant to an
agreement with another person.
   “CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.” A nonprofit entity recognized as exempt from
federal taxation under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.
sec. 501 (c)) or any organization having been established and continuously
operating within the Commonwealth of Kentucky for charitable purposes for three
(3) years and which expends at least 60% of its gross revenue exclusively for
religious, educational, literary, civic, fraternal, or patriotic purposes.
   “CIDER.” Any fermented fruit-based beverage containing 7% or more alcohol by
volume and includes hard cider and perry cider.
   “CITY ADMINISTRATOR.” The City of Florence Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator.
   “COMMERCIAL AIRPORT.” An airport through which more than five hundred
thousand (500,000) passengers arrive or depart annually.
   “COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE.” A vehicle equipped with a minimum of ten (10)
pairs of fully operative pedals for propulsion by means of human muscular power
exclusive and which:
      (1)   Has four (4) wheels;
      (2)   Is operated in a manner similar to that of a bicycle;
      (3)   Is equipped with a minimum of thirteen (13) seats for passengers;
      (4)   Has a unibody design;
      (5)   Is equipped with a minimum of four (4) hydraulically operated
brakes;
      (6)   Is used for commercial tour purposes; and
      (7)   Is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   “COMMISSIONER.” The commissioner of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control.
   “CONVENTION CENTER.” Any facility which, in its usual and customary
business, provides seating for a minimum of one thousand (1,000) people and
offers convention facilities and related services for seminars, training and
educational purposes, trade association meetings, conventions, or civic and
community events or for plays, theatrical productions, or cultural exhibitions.
   “CONVICTED” or “CONVICTION.” A finding of guilt resulting from a plea of
guilty, the decision of a court, or the finding of a jury, irrespective of a
pronouncement of judgment or the suspension of the judgment.
   “COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR.” County Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   “DEPARTMENT.” The Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   “DINING CAR.” A railroad passenger car that serves meals to consumers on any
railroad or Pullman car company.
   “DISCOUNT IN THE USUAL COURSE OF BUSINESS.” Price reductions, rebates,
refunds, and discounts given by wholesalers to distilled spirits and wine
retailers pursuant to an agreement made at the time of the sale of the
merchandise involved and are considered a part of the sales transaction,
constituting reductions in price pursuant to the terms of the sale,
irrespective of whether the quantity discount was:
      (1)   Prorated and allowed on each delivery;
      (2)   Given in a lump sum after the entire quantity of merchandise
purchased had been delivered; or
      (3)   Based on dollar volume or on the quantity of merchandise purchased.
   “DISTILLED SPIRITS” or “SPIRITS.” Any product capable of being consumed by a
human being which contains alcohol in excess of the amount permitted by KRS
Chapter 242 obtained by distilling, mixed with water or other substances in
solution, except wine, hard cider, and malt beverages.
   “DISTRIBUTOR.” Any person who distributes malt beverages for the purpose of
being sold at retail.
   “HORSE RACETRACK.” A facility licensed to conduct a horse race meeting under
KRS Chapter 230.
   “HOTEL.” A hotel, motel, or inn for accommodation of the traveling public,
designed primarily to serve transient patrons.
   “INVESTIGATOR.” Any employee or agent of the department who is regularly
employed and whose primary function is to travel from place to place for the
purpose of visiting licensees, and any employee or agent of the department who
is assigned, temporarily or permanently, by the commissioner to duty outside
the main office of the department at Frankfort, in connection with the
administration of alcoholic beverage statutes.
   “LICENSE.” Any license issued pursuant to this chapter or KRS Chapters 241
to 244.
   “LICENSEE.” Any person to whom a license has been issued, pursuant to this
chapter or KRS Chapters 241 to 244.
   “LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.” A city alcoholic beverage administrator, county
alcoholic beverage administrator, or urban-county alcoholic beverage control
administrator.
   “MALT BEVERAGE.” Any fermented undistilled alcoholic beverage of any name or
description, manufactured from malt wholly or in part, or from any substitute
for malt, and includes weak cider.
   “MANUFACTURE.” Distill, rectify, brew, bottle, and operate a winery.
   “MANUFACTURER.” A winery, distiller, rectifier, or brewer, and any other
person engaged in the production or bottling of alcoholic beverages.
   “PREMISES.” The land and building in and upon which any business regulated
by alcoholic beverage statutes is operated or carried on. It shall not include
as a single unit two separate businesses as a enterprises of one owner on the
same lot or tract of land, in the same or in different buildings if physical
and permanent separation of the premises is maintained, excluding employee
access by keyed entry and emergency exits equipped with crash bars, and each
has a separate public entrance accessible directly from the sidewalk or parking
lot. Any licensee holding an alcoholic beverage license on July 15, 1998, shall
not, by reason of this subsection, be ineligible to continue to hold its
license or obtain a renewal of the license.
   “PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY” or “SUPPLIER.” The distiller, winery, brewer,
producer, owner of the commodity at the time it becomes a marketable product,
bottler, or authorized agent of the brand owner. In the case of imported
products, the “PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY” means either the foreign producer,
owner, bottler, or agent of the prime importer from, or the exclusive agent in,
the United States of the foreign distiller, producer, bottler, or owner.
   “PRIVATE CLUB.” A nonprofit social, fraternal, military, or political
organization, club, or entity maintaining or operating a club room, club rooms,
or premises from which the general public is excluded.
   “PUBLIC NUISANCE.” A condition that endangers safety or health, is offensive
to the senses, or obstructs the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by a community or neighborhood or
by any considerable number of persons.
   “QUALIFIED HISTORIC SITE.”
      (1)   A contributing property with dining facilities for at least fifty
(50) persons at tables, booths, or bars where food may be served within a
commercial district listed in the National Register of Historic Places;
      (2)   A site that is listed as a National Historic Landmark or in the
National Register of Historic Places with dining facilities for at least fifty
(50 persons at tables, booths, or bars where food may be served;
      (3)   A distillery which is listed as a National Historic Landmark and
which conducts souvenir retail package sales under KRS 243.0305; or
      (4)   A not-for-profit facility listed on the national Register of
Historic Places.
   “RECTIFIER.” Any person who rectifies, purifies, or refines distilled
spirits or wine by any process other than as provided for on distillery
premises, and every person who, without rectifying, purifying, or refining
distilled spirits by mixing alcoholic beverages with any materials,
manufactures any imitations of or compounds liquors for sale under the name of
whiskey, brandy, gin, rum, wine, spirits, cordials, bitters, or any other name.
   “REPACKAGING.” The placing of alcoholic beverages in any retail container
irrespective of the material from which the container is made.
   “RESTAURANT.” A facility where the usual and customary business is the
preparation and serving of meals to consumers, that has a bona fide kitchen
facility, and that receives at least 50% of its food and alcoholic beverage
receipts from the sale of food at the premises.
   “RETAIL CONTAINER.” Any bottle, can, barrel, or other container which,
without a separable intermediate container holds alcoholic beverages and is
suitable and destined for sale to a retail outlet, whether it is suitable for
delivery to the consumer or not.
   “RETAIL SALE.” Any sale where delivery is made in Kentucky to any consumers.
   “RETAILER.” Any licensee who sells and delivers any alcoholic beverage to
consumers, except for producers with limited retail sale privileges.
   “SALE.” Any transfer, exchange, or barter for consideration, including all
sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or
employee of any alcoholic beverage.
   “SELL.” Solicit or receive an order for, keep or expose for sale, keep with
intent to sell, and the delivery of any alcoholic beverage.
   “SERVICE BAR.” A bar, counter, shelving, or similar structure used for
storing or stocking supplies of alcoholic beverages that is a workstation where
employees prepare alcoholic beverage drinks to be delivered to customers away
from the service bar.
   “SMALL FARM WINERY.” A winery whose wine production is not less than two
hundred fifty (250) gallons and not greater than one hundred thousand (100,000)
gallons in a calendar year.
   “SOUVENIR PACKAGE.” A special package of distilled spirits available from a
licensed retailer that is:
      (1)   Available for retail sale at a licensed Kentucky distillery where
the distilled spirits were produced or bottled; or
      (2)   Available for retail sale at a licensed Kentucky distillery but
produced or bottled at another of that distiller’s licensed distilleries in
Kentucky.
   “STATE ADMINISTRATOR” or “ADMINISTRATOR.” The distilled spirits
administrator or the malt beverages administrator, or both, as the context
requires.
   “SUPPLEMENTAL BAR.” A bar, counter, shelving, or similar structure used for
serving and selling distilled spirits or wine by the drink for consumption on
the licensed premises to guests and patrons from additional locations other
than the main bar.
   “TERRITORY.” A county, city, district, or precinct.
   “VEHICLE.” Any device or animal used to carry, convey, transport, or
otherwise move alcoholic beverages or any products, equipment, or appurtenances
used to manufacture, bottle, or sell these beverages.
   “WAREHOUSE.” Any place in which alcoholic beverages are housed or stored.
   “WEAK CIDER.” Any fermented fruit-based beverage containing more than 1% but
less than 7% alcohol by volume.
   “WHOLESALE SALE.” A sale to any person for the purpose of resale.
   “WHOLESALER.” Any person who distributes alcoholic beverages for the purpose
of being sold at retail, but it shall not include a subsidiary of a
manufacturer or cooperative of a retail outlet.
   “WINE.” The product of the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juices of
fruits, with the usual processes of manufacture and normal additions, and
includes champagne and sparkling and fortified wine of an alcoholic content not
to exceed 24% by volume. It includes sake, cider, hard cider, and perry cider
and also includes preparations or mixtures vended in retail containers if these
preparations or mixtures contain not more than fifteen percent (15%) of alcohol
by volume. It does not include weak cider.
   “WINERY.” Any place or premises in which wine is manufactured from any
fruit, or brandies are distilled as a by-product of wine or other fruit, or
cordials are compounded, except a place or premises that manufactures wine for
sacramental purposes exclusively.
(Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-18-17,
passed 12-12-17)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall do any act authorized by any kind of
license provided for in this chapter with respect to the storage, sale,
purchase, transporting, or other traffic in alcoholic beverages unless the
person, firm, or corporation holds the kind of license from the city which
authorizes such act. No person, firm, or corporation which conducts a place of
business patronized by the public and which does not hold a license to sell
distilled spirits, and wine or malt beverages shall permit any person to sell,
barter, loan, give away, or drink distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages on
the premises of his place of business.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-34-82,
passed 9-2-82)
§ 111.03 TYPES OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   The following kinds of distilled spirits and wine licenses and malt
beverage licenses may be issued by the city and the fees for each license shall
be:
      (1)   The license fees are subject to the provisions of subsections (A)
(2), (3), and (4) of this section, and shall not exceed the amounts specified
in this subsection:
(a) Distiller’s license, per annum                                $500
(b) Rectifier’s license:                                           
   1. Class A, per annum                                           $3,000
   2. Class B (craft rectifier), per annum                         $960
(c) Wholesaler ’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum   $3,000
(d) Quota retail package license, per annum                         $1,000
(e) Quota retail drink license, per annum                           $1,000
(f) Special temporary license, per event                            $166
(g) Nonquota type 1 retail drink license, per annum                 $2,000
(h) Nonquota type 2 retail drink license, per annum                 $1,000
(I) Nonquota type 3 retail drink license, per annum                 $300
(j) Special temporary alcoholic beverage auction license, per event $100
(k) Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                  $300
(l) Extended hours supplemen tal license, per annum                 $2,000
(m) Caterer’s license, per annum                                  $800
(n) Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum     $1,000
(o) Brewer’s license, per annum                                   $500
(p) Microbrewery license, per annum                                 $500
(q) Malt beverage distributor’ s license, per annum               $400
(r) Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum        $200
(s) Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum   $200
(t) Limited restaurant license, per annum                           $1,200
(u) Limited golf course license, per annum                          $1,200
(v) Authorized public consumption license, per annum                $250
(w) Qualified historic site license, per annum                      $1,030
 
      (2)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by
more than five percent (5%) above the January 1, 2013, fee for the current
license or the former license type listed beside it, during any five (5) year
period. The fees for the licenses described in this subsection are still
subject to the maximum amounts listed for those licenses in subsection (A)(1)
of this section:
         (a)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor license;
         (b)   Quota retail drink license: retail drink license;
         (c)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license: convention center or
convention hotel complex license;
         (d)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink license;
         (e)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt
beverage license;
         (f)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt
beverage license;
         (g)   Limited restaurant license; and
         (h)   Limited golf course license.
      (3)   The fee for each of the first five (5) supplemental bar licenses
shall be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no
charge for each supplemental license issued in excess of five (5) to the same
licensee at the same premises.
      (4)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a Nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of fifty dollars
($50). The holder of a Nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a
nonquota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of fifty dollars ($50).
(Ord. 0-5-58, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-42-78,
passed 11-28-78; Am. Ord. O-10-79, passed 4-11-79; Am. Ord. O-34-82, passed 9-
2-82; Am. Ord. O-36-94, passed 1-10-95; Am. Ord. O-9-99, passed 6-15-99; Am.
Ord. O-18-17, passed 12-12-17)
   (B)   Issuance date for new licenses: The issuance date and due date for
fees for all annual licenses shall be as follows:
      (1)   All new licenses shall be issued when approved under the provisions
of this chapter and the fee shall be due at the time of issuance. Fees due for
partial years shall be calculated in accordance with §
111.06 of this chapter.
      (2)   The issuance date for all such licenses for which, as of the
effective date of this section, the licensee holds a valid corresponding state
license, shall be December 1. The license fee shall be due at the time of
issuance.
      (3)   Applications for renewal of annual licenses shall be filed in the
Finance Department not later than 15 days prior to the issuance date.
   (C)   If the applicant for any city alcoholic beverage license is indebted
to the city for any reason such as unpaid taxes, assessments, fees or fines, or
similar obligations, the license applied for shall not be issued until all of
such indebtedness, together with any penalty or interest associated therewith,
shall have been paid in full.
   (D)   If any section, paragraph or clause of this section is held by a
proper Court to be invalid, such invalidity shall not effect the remaining
sections, paragraphs or clauses, it being hereby expressly declared that the
remainder of this section would have been passed despite such invalidity.
(Ord. O-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-9-99, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord. O-02-
03, passed 2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-21-12, passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed
10-8-13; Am. Ord. O-3-14, passed 1-14-14)
Statutory reference:
   City licenses; fees, see KRS 243.070
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Application for the issuance or renewal of all licenses provided for in this
chapter shall be made to the Finance Department for approval by the City
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator on forms as may be prescribed by the
City Administrator. Licenses shall be issued or renewed and fees collected by
the Finance Department. No license shall be issued without the approval of the
City Administrator. Licenses shall be issued in such form as may be prescribed
by the City Administrator. All license fees collected pursuant hereto shall be
placed in the general fund of the city.
(Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-02-03,
passed 2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed 10-8-13)
§ 111.05 INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be on forms furnished by the city.
They shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such information
concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is sought as
the City Administrator may require.
   (B)   In addition to such other information as the City Administrator may
require, every application for the issuance of a license shall be given under
oath.
   (C)   If, after a license has been issued, there is a change in any of the
facts required to be set forth in the application, a verified supplemental
statement in writing giving notice of the change shall be filed with the City
Administrator within ten days after the change.
   (D)   In giving any notice or taking any action in reference to a license,
the City Administrator may rely upon the information furnished in the
application or in the supplemental statement connected with the application.
This information, as against the licensee or applicant, shall be conclusively
presumed to be correct.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. 0-16-71, passed 7-13-71; Am. Ord. 0-4-77,
passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed 10-8-
13)
§ 111.06 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on November 30 of each
year. The renewal of any alcoholic beverage license shall not be construed to
be a waiver or condonement of any violation which occurred prior to the renewal
and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee therefor.
   (B)   When any person applies for a license authorized to be issued
hereunder, on or after June 1 of any year, he shall be charged, if the license
is issued, an amount equal to one- half of the annual license fee, until the
following December 1. No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any
person who held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the
preceding license period and who was actually doing business under the license
during the last month of the preceding license period.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. 0-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82,
passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed 10-8-13)
§ 111.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE
   (A)   Before commencing or doing any business for the time for which a
license has been issued, the license shall be posted and at all times displayed
in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is
carried on, so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
   (B)   No licensee shall post the license or permit it to be posted upon
premises other than the licensed premises, or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee,
or knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in any respect.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. 0-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82,
passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed 10-8-13)
§ 111.08 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license provided for hereunder shall be issued, renewed, or
transferred to any person, firm, or corporation until the person, firm, or
corporation shall have obtained the issuance, renewal, or transfer of the state
license corresponding thereto. In each instance the licensed premises covered
by the city license must be the same as the licensed premises covered by the
corresponding state license.
   (B)   The city license issued to any person, firm, or corporation shall
remain valid only so long as the state license corresponding thereto, issued to
the person, firm, or corporation, shall be valid. Any revocation, suspension,
nonrenewal, or other action which makes the state license null and void shall
operate to revoke, suspend, make nonrenewable, or null and void the city
license corresponding thereto. Any city license which is revoked, suspended,
not renewed, or so made invalid shall be immediately surrendered to the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-34-82,
passed 9-2-82)
§ 111.09 HOURS WHEN SALES PERMITTED.
   (A)   A licensee may sell alcoholic beverages or do any act authorized by
the licensee’s license with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages only
during the hours hereinafter set out for each such license.
      (1)   A premises licensed to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages shall be permitted to do so between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 2:30
a.m., except that such drink sales shall be permitted on Sunday only between
the hours from 9:00 a.m. to 11:59:59 p.m. (Sunday sales require a special
Sunday retail drink license).
      (2)   Retail package distilled spirits and wine sales shall be permitted
from 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. each day of the week, except that such package
sales shall be permitted on Sunday only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 11:
59:59 p.m.
      (3)   Retail malt beverage package sales shall be permitted from 6:00
a.m. until 2:30 a.m. each day of the week, except that such package sales shall
be permitted on Sunday only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 11:59:59 p.m.
      (4)   A licensee who holds a NQ1 license may apply for an extended hours
supplemental license which will allow alcohol sales between the period between
6:00 a.m. to 4:30 a.m. daily except Sunday and from 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday.
      (5)   A licensee who holds a special Sunday retail drink license may
serve distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages by the drink from 9:00 a.m.
to 11:59:59 p.m., except when New Year’s Eve (Dec. 31) falls on a Sunday, then
until 2:30 a.m. on the following New Year’s Day (January 1).
      (6)   Holders of a distributor’s license are permitted to deliver and
sell alcohol between 6:00 a.m. and 11:59:59 p.m. each day of the week except
Sunday.
   (B)   If a licensee provides a separate department within his licensed
premises capable of being locked and closed off, within which is kept all
stocks of alcoholic beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with his
business as a licensee, and this department is kept locked during all times
when his premises are open and he is not authorized to sell alcoholic beverages
hereunder, he shall be deemed to have complied with this section.
(Ord. 0-64-60, passed 5-24-60; Am. Ord. 0-39-72, passed 11-14- 72; Am. Ord. 0-
4-77, passed 3-8- 77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-02-03, passed
2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-30-04, passed 12-7-04; Am. Ord. O-21-12, passed 12-18- 12;
Am. Ord. O-12-13, passed 10-8-13; Am. Ord. O-18-17, passed 12-12-17; Am. Ord.
O-17-22, passed 9-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 244.290
§ 111.10 VIOLATIONS OF STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to condone the violation by any person,
firm, or corporation within the city of any federal or state statute, law, or
regulation, now, heretofore or hereafter in effect applicable to any person,
firm, or corporation relating to the storage, sale, purchase, transporting, or
other traffic in alcoholic beverages. Any violation of any statute, law, or
regulation shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. If any clerk, agent,
servant, or employee of any licensee shall violate any provision of this
chapter, or such statute, law, or regulation, the violation shall be a
violation by the licensee. Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator if the licensee shall have
violated any provision of this chapter or any provision of any statute, law, or
regulation.
(Ord. O-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. O-34-82, passed 9-2-82)
§ 111.11 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City of Florence Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (the “City Administrator”). The City
Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Administrator, before entering upon his duties, shall take
the oath prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution and shall immediately notify
the Department of qualifications and appointment.
   (C)   No person shall be an administrator, an investigator, or an employee
of the city under the supervision of the City Administrator, who would be
disqualified to be a member of the Board under KRS 241.100.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall have the same duties and functions
regarding local license applications and renewals as the department with
respect to state licenses. The City Administrator shall have the same duties
and functions regarding local license penalization as the board with respect to
state license penalization.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall, pursuant to KRS 243.450(1)(b), provide
notification to the State Administrator that an applicant has obtained approval
for a City license at premises proposed for a state license. Such notification
shall be provided at the time and in the manner prescribed by the State
Administrator.
   (F)   Decisions or orders issued by the City Administrator shall be in
writing and be mailed or delivered by personal service to the applicant or
License holder affected. Decisions or orders of the City Administrator may be
appealed to the Board as set forth in KRS 241.200.
   (G)   The City Administrator shall deny a license:
      (1)   If the applicant or the premises for which the license is sought
does not comply fully with all alcoholic beverage control statutes, ordinances
and the administrative regulations of the Board or the city;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in its
application.
      (4)   If the applicant has not obtained any state license required at the
proposed premises;
      (5)   If the applicant has not obtained a City of Florence Occupational
License for operation allowed by the License at the proposed premises; and
      (6)   If the applicant is indebted to the City for any unpaid taxes,
fees, utility charges, fines, liens or assessments.
   (H)   A License may be revoked or suspended by the City Administrator for a
violation of any of the following:
      (1)   Any of the provisions of KRS Chapters 241 to 244;
      (2)   Any administrative regulation of the Board relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages;
      (3)   Any rule or administrative regulation of the Department of Revenue
relating to the taxation of alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   Any Act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal board,
agency, or commission;
      (5)   Any city ordinance relating to the regulation of the manufacture,
sale, and transportation or taxation of alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Any of the laws, regulations, or ordinances referred to in this
section when an agent, servant, or employee of the Licensee committed the
violation, irrespective of whether the Licensee knew of or permitted the
violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of the
licensee’s instructions;
      (7)   Any of the reasons for which the City Administrator would have been
required to deny a License if existing material facts had been known;
      (8)   Conviction of licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
      (9)   Making any false, material statements in an application or renewal
application for a license or supplemental license;
      (10)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants, or employees of:
         (a)   Two (2) violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapters
241 to 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages within two (2) consecutive years;
         (b)   Two (2) misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages within two (2) consecutive years; or
         (c)   Any felony;
      (11)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any part
of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any statutes,
ordinances, or Acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
related administrative regulations promulgated by the Department of Revenue;
      (12)   Revocation, suspension or expiration of any license issued by the
department;
      (13)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in. on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook or facility. This subsection shall not apply
to:
         (a)   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS
Chapter 154A;
         (b)   The operation of a pari-mutual system for betting where
authorized by law;
         (c)   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Chapter 238; or
         (d)   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036;
      (14)   Conviction of the Licensee, the Licensee’s agents, servants, or
employees for:
         (a)   The trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Chapter 218A, including
synthetic drugs;
         (b)   Knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Chapter 218A, including synthetic drugs; or
         (c)   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed premises;
      (15)   Failure to prevent or suppress any violent quarrel, disorder,
brawl, fight or other improper or unlawful conduct of any person who is upon
the premises;
      (16)   Failure to immediately report to the proper law enforcement
authorities an illegal or violent act that has been committed on or about the
premises when the licensee or his/her employee knew or should have known that
said act occurred upon the premises;
      (17)   Failure to cooperate fully with law enforcement authorities during
the course of an investigation into an illegal or violent act that was
committed on or about the licensed premises; or
      (18)   Permitting or allowing the premises, on which the business for
which the License was issued are located or the premises adjacent thereto under
the control of the licenseholder, to be used for any unlawful purpose or in an
unlawful manner.
(Ord. 0-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-02-03,
passed 2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-18-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 111.12 APPEALS AND PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS BEFORE THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   Appeals and Hearings before the City Administrator shall be conducted as
follows.
   (A)   License denial: an applicant desiring to contest the denial of
issuance of a License may appeal to the Board as specified in KRS 241.200.
   (B)   Revocation or suspension of licenses: the city may on its own
initiative or on the complaint of any person, institute administrative
proceedings before the City Administrator to revoke or suspend any license. A
license may be revoked or suspended after the licensee has been afforded the
opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with the procedure outlined
below.
   (C)   Procedure: complaints seeking suspension or revocation of a license on
the initiative of the city may be filed with the City Administrator by the
Mayor or any person designated as a Code Enforcement Officer by Ordinance No.
O-10-16. The complaint shall contain: a statement of the factual basis for the
revocation or suspension along with a statement of issues involved, in
sufficient detail to give the licensee reasonable opportunity to prepare
evidence and argument-Complaints received from persons other than City
officials shall be in writing, under oath, and shall in plain language describe
the factual basis for the action sought. The City Administrator may issue an
emergency order summarily suspend a License upon finding that continued
operation of the license holder pending a hearing would constitute a threat to
the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (D)   Notice of hearing: upon receipt of a complaint, the City Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Conduct the hearing as soon as practicable and shall given notice
of the hearing to the Licensee not less than ten (10) days in advance of the
date set for the hearing;
      (2)   The notice required shall be served on the licensee by first class
mail, sent to the last known address, or by personal service;
      (3)   The notice shall be in plain language and shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the date, time, place and nature of the hearing;
         (b)   The name and mailing address of the City Administrator;
         (c)   A reference to the specific statutes and administrative
regulations which relate to the issues involved;
         (d)   A statement advising the Licensee of the right to legal counsel;
         (e)   A statement of the licensee’s right to examine, at least five
(5) days prior to the hearing, a list of witnesses the licensee expects to call
at the hearing, any evidence to be used at the hearing and any exculpatory
information in the licensee’s possession;
         (f)   A statement advising that a licensee who fails to attend or
participate as required at any stage of the administrative hearing process may
be held in default under this chapter; and
         (g)   A statement that the hearing may result in suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (E)   Conduct of hearing.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall preside over the hearing and shall
regulate the course of the proceedings in a manner which will promote the
orderly and prompt conduct of the hearing.
      (2)   The City Administrator, at appropriate stages of the proceedings,
shall give all parties full opportunity to file pleadings, motions and
objections.
      (3)   The City Administrator may issue subpoenas and discovery orders
when requested by a party or on his own violition. When a subpoena is
disobeyed, any party may apply to the Circuit Court of the judicial circuit in
which the hearing is held for an order requiring obedience. Failure to comply
with an order of the court shall be cause for punishment as a contempt of the
court.
      (4)   To the extent necessary for the full disclosure of all relevant
facts and issues, the City Administrator shall afford all parties the
opportunity to respond, present evidence and argument, conduct cross-
examination, and submit rebuttal evidence.
      (5)   Any party to the hearing may participate in person or be
represented by counsel.
      (6)   The hearing shall be open to the public unless specifically closed
pursuant to a provision of law.
   (F)   Findings; evidence; recording of hearing; burdens of proof.
      (1)   Findings by the City Administrator shall be based exclusively on
the evidence on the record. The City Administrator shall exclude evidence that
is irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or excludable on constitutional
or statutory grounds or on the basis of evidentiary privilege recognized in the
courts of this Commonwealth. Hearsay evidence may be admissible, if it is the
type of evidence that reasonable and prudent persons would rely on in their
daily affairs, but it shall not be sufficient in itself to support Findings
unless it would be admissible over objections in civil action.
      (2)   All testimony shall be made under oath or affirmation. Any part of
the evidence may be received in written form if doing so will expedite the
hearing without substantial prejudice to the interests of any party.
      (3)   Objections to evidentiary offers may be made by any party and shall
be noted in the record.
      (4)   The city shall cause all testimony, motions, and objections in a
hearing to be accurately and completely recorded. Any person, upon request, may
receive a copy of the recording or a copy of the transcript, if the hearing has
been transcribed, at the discretion of the City, unless the hearing is closed
by law. The agency may prepare a transcript of a hearing or a portion of a
hearing upon request but the party making the request shall be responsible for
the transcription costs; the form of all requests and fees charged shall be
consistent with KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
      (5)   Not later than seven (7) business days following the conclusion of
the hearing, the City Administrator shall issue a decision or order which shall
set out the final disposition of the charges together with findings and
conclusions which form the basis of that action.
   (G)   A licensee desiring to contest a decision of the City Administrator
dealing with revocation or suspension of a license may appeal to the Board as
specified in KRS 241.200.
(Ord. O-18-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 111.13 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who is the owner,
occupant or who is otherwise in possession of any property located in the city
to knowingly allow any other person under the age of 21 years, except members
of the immediate family (spouse or children) of such owner, occupant or
possessor, to remain on such property while in the possession of any alcoholic
beverage or while consuming any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. O-11-87, passed 6-2-87)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) the offense of violating any provision of
O-18-17 is designated as a misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed on any person,
firm or corporation who, acting by himself or through another, directly or
indirectly, commits the offense.
   (B)   All ordinances, laws, or resolutions of the city relating to alcoholic
beverage control are, subject to the provisions of §
111.12, repealed. However, the repeal of any ordinance, law, or resolution
shall not prevent the prosecution, conviction, and imposition of penalties
after the date of passage hereof of any person, firm, or corporation which
violated such ordinance, law, or resolution prior to the date of passage
hereof.
(Ord. 5, passed 7-22-58; Am. Ord. 0-4-77, passed 3-8-77; Am. Ord. 0-34-82,
passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. O-02-03, passed 2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-18-17, passed 12-12-
17)
CHAPTER 112: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
Circus or Carnival
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Application to conduct circus or carnival
   
112.03   Display of license
   
112.04   License fees
   
112.05   Disbursal of funds
Coin-operated Devices
   
112.10   Regulation
   
112.11   Exceptions
   
112.12   License tax; license sticker; exception
Teen Dances on Premises Containing Coin-operated Devices
   
112.20   Application of regulations
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   Application for license; review
   
112.23   Approval or denial of application; conditions
   
112.24   Revocation
   
112.25   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
 Statutory reference:
   Licensing of amusements, see KRS 85.150(5)
CIRCUS OR CARNIVAL
§ 112.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall set up or maintain a circus,
menagerie, or carnival within the city without having secured the license as
hereinafter provided. No person, firm, or corporation maintaining a circus,
menagerie, or carnival shall permit any gambling on the premises occupied by
the circus, menagerie, or carnival, nor shall any person, firm, or corporation
maintaining a circus, menagerie, or carnival permit any indecent or lewd shows
or events on the occupied premises. There shall be no intoxicating liquors sold
on the premises, and the person, firm, or corporation maintaining the circus,
menagerie, or carnival shall be responsible for maintaining peace and order on
the occupied premises.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any religious, fraternal, educational,
scientific, or horticultural societies, nor to the volunteer fire department of
the city, these societies and associations being nonprofit organizations.
(Ord. O-148-38, passed 9-13-38)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION TO CONDUCT CIRCUS OR CARNIVAL.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to conduct and maintain a circus,
menagerie, or carnival within the city shall make application to the Clerk.
This application shall recite that the person applying for the license will not
permit gambling, indecent or lewd shows, or exhibitions on the premises to be
occupied.
The application shall also recite that the person applying is of good moral
character and has never been convicted of maintaining gambling devices or shows
against public decency.
(Ord. O-148-38, passed 9-13-38)
§ 112.03 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license and permit issued pursuant to §§
112.01 through
112.05 shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises occupied. No
license shall be transferred unless a new application is made to the Clerk and
approved and after the payment of the fee of $1 for the transfer.
(Ord. O-148-38, passed 9-13-38)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The person applying for such license shall file, with the Clerk, a statement
of the number of concessions to be operated and the number of days the circus,
menagerie, or carnival will be operated and shall accompany this statement with
a certified check, cash, or money order for a sum equal to $1 per day for each
concession multiplied by the number of days the concessions are to be operated,
and, if the statement includes a tent show, the application shall be
accompanied by a certified check, cash, or money order for a sum equivalent to
$5 per performance.
(Ord. O-148-38, passed 9-13-38)
§ 112.05 DISBURSAL OF FUNDS.
   All money derived from collection of license fees and transfer fees as
herein provided and all money derived from payment of fines as provided in §
112.99(A) shall be paid into and become a part of the general fund of the city.
(Ord. O-148-38, passed 9-13-38)
COIN-OPERATED DEVICES
§ 112.10 REGULATION.
   The number of coin-operated amusement devices, including electro-mechanical
pinball machines, permitted at any one location shall not exceed the total
number of five, and of the total number of five of these devices permitted, no
more than two of the devices shall be of the electro-mechanical pinball machine
type. Batting cages and billiard tables are not included as devices or machines
as those terms are used in this section.
(Ord. O-32-79, passed 9-27-79; Am. Ord. O-27-81, passed 5-12-81; Am. Ord. O-38-
93, passed 12-14-93)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   There is excepted and excluded from the provisions hereof the
following.
      (1)   Hotels, inns, or motels for accommodation of the traveling public
which are designed primarily to serve transient patrons, and where the hotel,
inn, or motel contains not less than 50 sleeping units, dining facilities for
not less than 100 persons, and not less than 15,000 square feet of parking
space.
      (2) Facilities which (a) prohibit the entry of minors unaccompanied by a
responsible adult, having dining facilities for not less than 100 persons, not
less than 15,000 square feet of parking space, and derive at least 50% of their
gross revenue from the sales of food and beverage; or, (b) prohibit the entry
of minors unaccompanied by a responsible adult, having dining facilities for
not less than 100 persons and providing a full food menu during all hours that
the facility is open to the public, in a building of not less than 25,000
square feet. Provided, however, that facilities which operate under this
division (2)(a) shall not be permitted to maintain on these premises, devices
of the electro-mechanical pinball type.
   (B)   The provisions of (A)   above shall not apply to any location:
      (1)   At which there existed and were operated five or more coin-operated
amusement devices and/or electro-mechanical pinball machines on the date of
final passage of Ordinance O-32-79; and
      (2)   Within such location there were, on the date of final passage of
Ordinance O-32-79 and continue to exist, adequate restroom facilities
consisting of separate facilities for male and female patrons. The requirement
of this division (2)   is satisfied if the location of these machines and
devices is part of a larger building or structure and adequate restroom
facilities consisting of separate facilities for male and female patrons exist
within the larger building or structure which are available to patrons of the
location by specific consent of the owner or person having control of the
larger building or structure.
      (3)   If a location which is exempted under divisions (1) and (2) of this
division (B) exists within an enclosed shopping structure which contains ten or
more retail stores, and where security personnel are provided for all common
areas of the structure, the location may be moved to other space within the
structure and/or enlarged; provided that the total number of locations within
the structure is not increased.
      (4)   Where the location of the machines and devices is within and part
of a larger facility which offers recreational activities to the public such as
golf, miniature golf, batting cages, basketball courts, racquetball, tennis,
billiards, ice skating, roller skating, auto racing, boating, bowling, or other
similar recreational activity.
      (5) The maximum number of machines and devices allowed at each location
to which division (B) of this section applies shall be determined in accordance
with the following formula: one machine or device is allowed for each 100
square feet of the location (exclusive of parking areas) devoted to the
recreational activities provided that: (1) not more than 40% of the area of the
principal building at the location may be devoted to machines or devices, and
(2) all machines and devices shall be contained within the principal building.
(Ord. O-32-79, passed 9-27-79; Am. Ord. O-27-81, passed 5-12-81; Am. Ord. O-23-
90, passed 9-25-90; Am. Ord. O-38-93, passed 12-14-93; Am. Ord. O-24-14, passed
10-14-14) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulating amusements, see KRS 85.150
§ 112.12 LICENSE TAX; LICENSE STICKER; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, "MACHINE" shall mean and include any
lawful coin or token-operated machine or device which contains no element of
chance and which as a result of depositing a coin, token, or other object
automatically by or through some mechanical operation affords music or
amusement of some character with or without vending any merchandise, but in
addition to any such merchandise. Such coin-operated amusement and vending
machine shall not include any bona fide merchandise vending machine in which
there is incorporated no amusement features.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation which owns, leases, or maintains or
permits to be placed on premises owned, leased, or occupied by it any machine
which is operated within the city shall pay the license tax and obtain and
attach and keep attached to the machine the license sticker provided for in
this section. It is the intent of this section that the owner of any such
machine and the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises upon which any such
machine is operated shall have the joint and several duty to pay such license
tax and obtain and attach and keep attached such license sticker to the
machine.
   (C)   (1)   The license tax shall, pursuant to KRS 137.410, be in an amount
equal to the taxes provided for state purposes payable per machine per license
period or any part thereof. The license period shall be for one year which
shall correspond to the city's fiscal year (July 1 through June 30). The annual
license tax shall be due and payable on July 1 each year or, in the case of a
machine placed and put into operation in the city after July l of any year, on
the day the machine is so placed and put into operation and annually thereafter
so long as such machine remains in operation in the city. However, any person
may procure a license to be effective only between January 1 and June 30 of any
year by paying therefor a sum equal to one half of the annual license fee.
      (2)   Any person required to secure a license and to pay the tax who
shall fail to secure the license and pay the tax at the time required therein
shall pay a penalty of 20% of the amount of the tax due and in addition thereto
interest at the rate of .5% per month on the principal amount of the tax during
the period in which the tax is due and unpaid.
   (D)   (1)   Upon payment of the license tax the person whose duty it is to
pay the license tax shall obtain from the City Clerk a license sticker
evidencing such payment. The license sticker shall be attached to the machine
for which it was purchase and shall remain so attached at all times during the
license period to which such sticker applies. Each license sticker shall be
purchased for one and only one specific machine and shall not be transferred
from one machine to another. The operation of a machine in the city without the
license sticker attached shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
      (2)   At the time the license tax is paid and the license sticker
obtained the person obtaining the sticker shall supply to the City Clerk such
information as may be reasonably required by the city in order to keep records,
account for, and administer this licensing procedure.
   (E)   In the case of all machines with respect to which one of the persons
or legal entities required to pay the license tax and obtain the license
sticker is a bona fide nonprofit organization, which has qualified for such
status under the provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations
thereunder, the license tax shall be $1 per machine per license period or part
thereof. At the time the license tax is paid and the license sticker is
obtained under the provisions of this division, the person obtaining the
license sticker shall present evidence to the City Clerk of qualification for
the license tax provided in this division.
   (F)   The license tax paid hereunder shall not be a credit against any tax
owing under the city's payroll-net profits tax ordinances.
(Ord. O-18-82, passed 6-8-82) Penalty, see §
112.99
TEEN DANCES ON PREMISES CONTAINING COIN-OPERATED DEVICES
§ 112.20 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter applies to commercial establishments having coin-operated
amusement devices under §§
112.10 through
112.12. If a facility is operating under §§
112.10 through
112.12 and is in compliance with those sections even though it has more than
five coin-operated amusement devices, the operation of a teen dance activity
for minors between the ages of 13 and 18 years unaccompanied by an adult for
which a license has been granted under this subchapter shall not be a violation
of §§
112.10 through
112.12 but only for the dates and during the hours of operation set forth in
the issued license and only for as long as that license remains in effect.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
§ 112.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation, or other entity of any form shall operate or
allow within the city dances for teenagers between the ages of 13 years and 18
years in or on any commercial premises containing coin-operated amusement
devices subject to §§
112.10 through
112.12 without first securing from the city a license allowing such activity
and paying any required license fee established by City Council.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.22 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REVIEW.
   (A)   To obtain a license to allow teen dances at locations containing coin-
operated amusement devices subject to §§
112.10 through
112.12, the person, firm, corporation, or other entity operating the premises
on which the activity is proposed shall submit an application to the City
Coordinator on forms provided by that office which shall include, at a minimum,
the following information:
      (1)   An activity plan clearly stating in detail the nature and type of
all activities to be conducted on the premises during operation of the teen
dance.
      (2)   Proposed hours of all of these activities with an acknowledgement
of understanding that any license that might be issued would be limited to
those proposed hours set forth in the application.
      (3)   An applicant must identify and explain in detail efforts that have
been made to coordinate the teen dance activities with local schools or
recognized sponsors of schools.
      (4)   A statement as to the maximum capacity for the facility or premises
which is proposed for use of the activities, and information concerning the
size of the facilities as well as seating arrangements for the facility during
the proposed hours. Any applicant shall allow duly authorized representatives
of the Volunteer Fire Department, Police Department, and Building Inspector's
Office to determine whether the proposed facility meets requirements of any
other codes for this kind of activity.
      (5)   The method and plan for management control and supervision must be
included within the application and the number of staff, employees, and
chaperons to be present at the facility shall be provided. Management control
and supervision must take into account all areas of the facility open to the
public, including parking areas.
      (6)   All applicants shall provide the names, addresses, and social
security numbers of those persons in charge of the operation of the teen dance,
as well as all officers and directors of any corporation that might be involved
in the operation of either the teen dance or the facility proposed for use.
   (B)   Upon receiving the application, it shall be forwarded by the City
Coordinator's office to the Volunteer Fire Department's offices for review and
approval. It shall also be forwarded to the Police Chief's office, who shall
review and investigate those matters set forth in the application to determine
whether the proposed method of management control and supervision are adequate.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
§ 112.23 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of submission of a complete application, the City
Coordinator's office shall notify the applicant of whether the application is
granted. If denied, the City Coordinator's office shall specify those items or
concerns for which the application is deemed insufficient. If denied, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the City Council.
   (B)   It is specifically provided herein that no application shall be
granted or permitted to continue in effect unless all of the conditions set
forth below are satisfied. These conditions for the issuance of any license and
for the continued use thereof are as follows:
      (1)   All applicants for such a license must agree to provide, at their
own cost, uniformed certified security personnel or police officers to be
present at the facility during all hours of operation of the teen dance
activity for which the license is sought. For this purpose, there shall be one
certified security personnel person or police officer present for every 200
persons planned for the facility. However, in no event shall there be less than
two uniformed police officers or certified security personnel persons present
at the facility during the hours of the teen dance activity.
      (2)   To prevent overcrowding, all applicants must agree to the pre-sale
of tickets to the facility for the teen dance activity and the plan for such
pre-sale of tickets must be set forth in the activity plan of the application.
      (3)   All applicants must agree to control and supervise patrons of the
teen dance activity from re-entering the facility after leaving it, and a
patron of the teen dance shall not be permitted to leave the facility and re-
enter it without the permission and supervision of the applicant as the license
holder.
      (4)   No alcoholic beverages are to be sold or allowed on the premises
for consumption during the hours of operation of the teen dance activities. Any
applicant receiving a license is responsible for taking immediate action for
the confiscation of any alcoholic beverages on the premises, including any
parking areas of the facility, and shall cooperate fully with the uniformed
police officers for this purpose.
      (5)   All operators of the teen dance activity are required to maintain
food and nonalcoholic beverage service for the persons attending the teen
dance.
      (6)   There must be dining facilities for not less than 100 persons at
the facility for which the teen dance activity is proposed, and there shall not
be less than 15,000 square feet of parking space available for use during all
hours of the teen dance activity.
      (7)   At least 50% of the gross revenue from the teen dance activity
shall be for sales of foods and nonalcoholic beverage.
      (8)   In providing proper adult supervision and management control, all
applicants for which a license is granted shall have at least one adult person
present for every 80 teenagers, based on the pre-sale of the tickets, and in
addition there shall be at least two resident managers. These persons must be
present at all times during the dance activity. In determining compliance with
this requirement, those persons located in areas of the facility, such as a
kitchen or office area, that are out of sight of those portions of the facility
open to the public shall not be included.
      (9)   Any license granted by this subchapter shall expire no later than
one year from the date of its issuance. Under any such license, teen dances may
be permitted on the premises for no more than two nights a week, which shall be
Friday or Saturday evenings. Teen dances on any given evening shall operate
only between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. and the premises cleared by
l:00 a.m. Further, there shall be a probationary period of six months for any
license issued, initially, to any specific premises.
       (10)    All applicants as license holders, and as part of their
application, shall acknowledge, consent, and agree that any license that might
be issued may be immediately revoked by the city, through its City Coordinator
for any violation of a statute, ordinance, regulation, or code provision, or
for any misrepresentation or failure to comply with any contents or conditions
of the application, its activity plan, or license issued, upon five days
written notice to the applicant for that license. Further, during the
probationary period of six months for any license at a new facility, such
license may be revoked by the City Coordinator for disorderly or immoral
conduct on the premises or for violation of any rules, regulations, ordinances,
or laws governing and applying to the public dances, or for other reasons the
teen dance activity violates public decency, morals, or public safety.
       (11)   No license for teen dance activity under this subchapter shall be
issued for any facility that is located less than 500 lineal feet from a
residential area.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.24 REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any license granted by this subchapter shall be in writing
from the City Coordinator's office.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
§ 112.25 APPEALS.
   (A)   Decisions of the City Coordinator regarding any application or
revocation of any license may be appealed to the City Council, within ten days
of any such decision by filing a notice with the City Clerk's office. Upon any
appeal, a decision must be made by City Council within 30 days from the date of
any appeal.
   (B)   On any appeal, the burden of proof or persuasion is on the applicant
to show that the application with its activity plan would have provided proper
management control and supervision and otherwise satisfied the criteria herein.
With regard to any appeal of a license revocation, the burden of proof or
persuasion is on the party whose license was revoked to show that there was no
violation of any statute, ordinance, regulation, or code provision, and that
there has been no misrepresentation or failure to comply with any contents or
conditions of the application, its activity plan, or license issued.
(Ord. O-17-85, passed 4-23-85)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.05 shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
who is found to be in violation of §§
112.10 or
112.11 shall be fined not more than the maximum sum of $500. Each day of
continuing violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. O-32-79, passed 9-27-79)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of §
112.12 shall be fined a sum not less than $25 nor more than $500 and each day
the offense continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
      (2)   Whoever attaches or causes to be attached to a machine any
fictitious evidence of tax payment purported to be issued by the city or a
counterfeit thereof, shall upon conviction thereof be fined not less than $500
and each separate fictitious counterfeit license stamp or receipt so attached
or used on a machine shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. O-18-82, passed 6-8-82)
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity found to be in
violation of the provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.25 shall be fined not more than the maximum sum of $500. Each day of
continuing violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. O-17-85, passed
4-23-85)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance policies
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; delinquency
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the City of Florence for the calendar quarter beginning July 1, 2018, and
each calendar quarter thereafter.
(Ord. O-25-84, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. O-34-91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-22-
94, passed 9-6-94; Am. Ord. O-3-07, passed 3-6-07; Am. Ord. O-4-18, passed 3-
20-18)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the City of Florence shall be 5% of the first year’s premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such
policies.
(Ord. O-25-84, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. O-34-91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-22-
94, passed 9-6-94; Am. Ord. O-3-07, passed 3-6-07; Am. Ord. O-4-18, passed 3-
20-18)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
City of Florence on those classes of business which such company is authorized
to transact, less all premiums returned to policy holders; however, any
licensee fee or tax imposed upon premiums receipts shall not include premiums
received for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to
their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’
Compensation Act and shall not include premiums received on policies exempted
under KRS 91A.080(10), (13), (14), and (15) or other applicable state statute
or Federal law.
(Ord. O-25-84, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. O-34-91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-22-
94, passed 9-6-94; Am. Ord. O-3-07, passed 3-6-07; Am. Ord. O-4-18, passed 3-
20-18)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. O-25-84, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. O-34-91, passed 10-8-91)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. O-25-84, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. O-34-91, passed 10-8-91; Am. Ord. O-34-
91, passed 10-8-91)
CHAPTER 114: SHOPPING CART REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Identification of carts
   
114.02   Carts to be confined to business premises
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 IDENTIFICATION OF CARTS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which is the owner of any grocery cart or
shopping cart which is maintained and supplied by the owner for use by
customers at the owner's business establishment in the city is required to have
permanently attached to each cart which it owns an identification tag which
sets forth the name, business establishment, and address of the owner of the
cart.
(Ord. O-16-74, passed 4-19-74)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.02 CARTS TO BE CONFINED TO BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of every person, firm, or corporation
in the city owning shopping carts or grocery carts, as set out in §
114.01, to keep them or see that they are kept within the confines of the
owner's business premises.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, "BUSINESS PREMISES" includes the
buildings, parking areas, and storage areas used in connection with the owner's
business. It shall be deemed a violation of this section if any shopping cart
or grocery cart is found off the owner's business premises.
(Ord. O-16-74, passed 4-19-74)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation in violation of §
114.01 shall be fined $5. Each cart to which a proper identification tag has
not been affixed shall be deemed to be a separate offense and each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense with respect to each
cart.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation in violation of §
114.02 shall be fined not less than $30 nor more than $500. Each cart found off
the owner's business premises shall be deemed to be a separate offense and each
day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense with respect to
each cart.
(Ord. O-16-74, passed 4-19-74)
CHAPTER 115: TRADE, OCCUPATION, OR PROFESSION LICENSE TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Effective date; duration
   
115.03   Records required; examinations and audits
   
115.04   Confidentiality of information; exception
   
115.05   Unnecessary divulgence of information prohibited
License Fees
   
115.15   Imposition; rate
   
115.16   Powers and duties of administrator
   
115.17   Employer's duty to withhold and pay fees
   
115.18   Employee's duty
   
115.19   (Reserved)
   
115.20   Interest on delinquent license fees
   
115.21   License fee based on maximum gross receipts
   
115.22   License tax to produce minimum municipal income, schedule
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADMINISTRATOR." The City Clerk, and other officials and employees of the
city, and any other persons as may be designated to administer and collect the
taxes imposed by this chapter.
   "COMPENSATION." See "GROSS RECEIPTS."
   "LICENSE FEE." A tax imposed for the privilege of exercising the right to
engage in a trade, occupation, or profession for compensation paid by others,
or the right to engage in a trade, occupation, or profession, for oneself, for
profit or gain, within the city.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-26-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-27-
91, passed 9-24-91; Am. Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 115.02 EFFECTIVE DATE; DURATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply and be effective from and after October 1,
1981, and shall remain in full force and effect until repealed or modified in a
lawful manner.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81)
   (B)   The provisions of §
115.15(A) shall become effective on October l, l983, and the remaining sections
of this chapter shall take effect as of July 1, 1983, it being the intent of
this division (B) that the increased rate for the license fee imposed on
persons engaged in a trade, occupation, or profession when employed by another
shall be in effect on and after October 1, 1983 and the elimination of the net
profits license fee imposed on persons engaged in a trade, occupation, or
profession for themselves shall be in effect from and after July 1, 1983.
(Ord. O-26-83, passed 8-23-83)
§ 115.03 RECORDS REQUIRED; EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS.
   (A)   The reports required by this chapter shall be in the form prescribed
by the Administrator and shall contain all essential information, dates, and
figures on which the license fees required by this chapter are computed.
   (B)   Every person required to pay any license fee provided by this chapter
shall be required to make all books, records, and accounts on which information
required by this chapter is based, available to the Administrator, his agents,
or employees, for the purpose of examination, audit, or verification. However,
if any licensee or employer subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
voluntarily submit copies of income tax returns for examination, then in that
case no further examination or audit will be required, until and unless there
is a re-examination or audit made by the taxing authority to whom the return is
made.
   (C)   The Administrator may dispense with an examination of the books,
records, accounts, or tax returns of the licensee in any case where the
Administrator is furnished with a certificate of an attorney at law, a licensed
public accountant, or the sworn statement of any other accountant or bookkeeper
of the licensee stating that the amount of tax reported conforms to the income
tax return filed by the licensee for the applicable period.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent or preclude the Administrator
from conducting an examination and audit of the books, records, and accounts as
provided in this section at any time he may have reasonable grounds to believe
that the licensee has not correctly reported and paid the license fee due under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.04 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All information obtained by the Administrator, any of his agents or
employees, or any other official or employee of the city from any reports,
examination, or audit of the books, records, accounts, income tax returns, or
any other source, in the administration of this chapter, shall be treated and
considered as confidential and privileged except for official purposes, unless
otherwise treated by judicial decree or specific provisions of law, and shall
not be open to inspection by the public.
   (B)   The Administrator, any of his agents or employees, or any other agent,
employee, or official of the city shall have the right to disclose to the State
Commissioner of Revenue, or his duly-authorized agent or employee, any of the
information protected by §
115.03, division (A) of this section, or §
115.05, provided reciprocal right to information concerning any person liable
for license fees under the provisions of this chapter is made available to the
city by state authorities, and provided further that the city may publish
statistics based on information obtained in the administration of this chapter
as long as the published statistics do not reveal the identity of any licensee.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81)
§ 115.05 UNNECESSARY DIVULGENCE OF INFORMATION PROHIBITED.
   The Administrator, any of his agents or employees, or any other official,
agent, or employee of the city who divulges any information obtained under the
provisions of this chapter, except for the purpose of administering this
chapter as herein provided, shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81)
Penalty, see § 115.99
LICENSE FEES
§ 115.15 IMPOSITION; RATE.
   (A)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation, or profession within the
city, when employed by another, shall pay a monthly license fee measured by and
equal to a percentage as hereafter set out of gross receipts paid for the
service, on and after October 1, l983.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any trade,
occupation, or profession within the city without withholding, reporting, and
paying the license fees provided and required in this chapter.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-43-81, passed 10-13-81; Am. Ord. O-
26-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-27-91, passed 9-24-91; Am. Ord. O-31-94,
passed 11-15-94)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.16 POWERS AND DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to collect all license fees and
pay them to the City Clerk to be deposited in the General Fund of the city, to
be used to defray the general expenses of the city. The Administrator shall
have the power and it shall be his duty to make and publish any rules and
regulations necessary to administer this chapter and to provide any printed
forms required for reporting, paying, and receipting all license fees and for
all other requirements in the proper and efficient administration of this
chapter.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81)
§ 115.17 EMPLOYER'S DUTY TO WITHHOLD AND PAY FEES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person engaged in any trade, occupation,
or profession within the city, who employs or engages the services of others in
connection therewith, to withhold from the compensation of the employee the
license fees provided in this chapter, at the time the compensation is paid or
credited. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C) or (D) below, any
person governed by this section shall pay to the Administrator the license fees
withheld by him according to the following provisions.
      (1)   For license fees withheld during the period commencing January 1
and ending March 31 of any year, on or before April 30 of that year.
      (2)   For license fees withheld during the period commencing April 1 and
ending June 30 of any year, on or before July 31 of that year.
      (3)   For license fees withheld during the period commencing July l and
ending September 30 of any year, on or before October 31 of that year.
      (4)   For license fees withheld during the period commencing October 1
and ending December 31 of any year, on or before January 31 of the next
succeeding year.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above to the contrary,
for the period commencing October 1, 1981, and ending March 31, 1982, any
person obligated to do so by this section shall report and pay to the
Administrator the license fees withheld by him on or before April 30, 1982.
Failure on the part of the employer to withhold, report, and pay the license
fees shall not relieve the employees from liability therefor.
   (C)   A person engaged in agriculture business (raising crops and livestock)
who employs less than five employees on a regular-time basis (450 hours during
a quarter), may file a return and pay the withholding tax at the end of the
taxable year.
   (D)   Any person may elect to estimate and pay in advance, the license fee
that may become due from compensation to be paid employees for a taxable year.
This procedure will exempt the person from filing quarterly returns. The
penalty for underpayment will be as provided in §
115.21.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-43-81, passed 10-13-81)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.18 EMPLOYEE'S DUTY.
   (A)   In the event an employer fails to withhold, report, or pay license
fees for which any employee is liable, it shall be the duty of the employee to
report and pay the fee when due and to file reports showing the total license
fee due for the period commencing October 1, 1981, and ending March 31, 1982,
and thereafter quarterly. This employee shall show on his reports the number of
months that he was employed in the city, the name and address of his employer,
the compensation received in each month and any other relevant information that
the Administrator may require.
   (B)   This employee shall have the right to make the election to estimate
and pay in advance the license fee for a taxable year as provided in §
115.17 (D). This procedure will exempt the person from filing quarterly
returns, but the annual report shall be filed on or before the date specified
in §
115.17.
   (C)   The annual reports shall be made not later than April 15 of each year.
In the event the employee has not paid the full amount of license fee due for
any period, the deficiency together with interest and penalties, must be paid
when the reports provided for above are filed or the amount legally determined
by the Administrator. In the event of over-payment, the city shall make prompt
refund.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-43-81, passed 10-13-81)
Penalty, see § 115.99)
Cross-reference:
   
Interest on delinquent license fees, see § 115.21
§ 115.19 (RESERVED)
§ 115.20 INTEREST ON DELINQUENT LICENSE FEES.
   All license fees not paid when due draw interest at the rate of 12% per
annum from the date until paid, and upon failure to pay any license fee when
due, a penalty of 12% is hereby imposed.
(Ord. O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94)
§ 115.21 LICENSE FEE BASED ON MAXIMUM GROSS RECEIPTS.
   The maximum compensation upon which a person engaged in a trade, occupation,
or profession when engaged by another, shall pay, with respect to the license
fee herein imposed, shall be an amount of such compensation equal to the
maximum income upon which Federal Social Security Tax is imposed as such
maximum income shall vary from time to time with changes in federal law.
(Ord. O-26-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-6-07, passed 4-24-07; Am. Ord. O-27-
07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 115.22 LICENSE TAX TO PRODUCE MINIMUM MUNICIPAL INCOME; SCHEDULE.
   The amount of the license fee after January 1, 2008 shall be equal to 2% of
compensation.
(Ord. O-26-83, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. O-27-91, passed 9-24-91; Am. Ord. O-5-
07, passed 3-6-07; Am. Ord. O-27-07, passed 12-11-07)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty, in the form of a fine or imprisonment prescribed by this
section, shall mean and include the individual members of a firm, partnership,
or association and the officers of the governmental body, agency, or any
corporation.
(Ord.O-37-81, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. O-32-94, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. O-27-
07, passed 12-11-07)
CHAPTER 116: SOLICITORS
Section
   
116.01   Soliciting contributions from driver or occupant of motor vehicle
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS FROM DRIVER OR OCCUPANT OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to approach a motor vehicle
stopped at any intersection as defined in KRS 189.0101(4) within the City of
Florence, Kentucky.
   (B)   The following are exceptions to the above provisions: any public
official approaching a stopped vehicle in his or her official capacity, and an
individual approaching a stopped vehicle in an emergency situation or under
exigent circumstances.
(Ord. O-35-83, passed 10-11-83; Am. Ord. O-7-17, passed 5-23-17) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) the offense of violation of this chapter is
designated as a misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed the amounts set
forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the periods
set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed for the offense.
(Ord. 0-35-83, passed 10-ll-83; Am. Ord. O-7-17, passed 5-23-17)
CHAPTER 117: HOTELS AND MOTELS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Records
   
117.03   Open for inspection
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definition of terms shall apply to this chapter:
   "HOTEL" or "MOTEL." Any establishment in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation; which is open to transient guests; and
which contains five or more rental suites, rooms or dwelling units.
   "PROPRIETOR." Any owner, manager, lessee or operator of a hotel or motel.
   "GUEST." Each person who pays compensation to occupy any suite, room or
dwelling unit in a hotel or motel.
(Ord. O-24-97, passed 12-9-97)
§ 117.02 RECORDS.
   The proprietors of all hotels and motels in the city shall keep accurate
records of all guests. Each person registering as a guest shall state, in
writing his or her true name, permanent address and place of employment. The
proprietor shall maintain the record for each guest for a period of not less
than one year from the date of such registration.
(Ord. O-24-97, passed 12-9-97)
§ 117.03 OPEN FOR INSPECTION.
   Records of guest registrations shall be open for inspection by members of
the Florence Police Department of the Florence Fire/EMS Department at any time
with the permission of the proprietor. If such permission is not granted, then
an appropriate warrant must be obtained and served on the proprietor prior to
inspection.
(Ord. O-24-97, passed 12-9-97; Am. Ord. O-12-15, passed 8-4-15)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to K.S. 83A.065(2), any violation of this chapter is hereby
designated as a misdemeanor and a fine not to exceed the amount set forth in
K.R.S. 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the period set
forth in K.S. 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed for such violations.
(Ord. O-24-97, passed 12-9-97)
CHAPTER 118: MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
Section
   
118.01   Temporary sale or display of motor vehicles
§ 118.01 TEMPORARY SALE OR DISPLAY OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is hereby affirmed that licensees under the provisions of KRS
190.030(7) are permitted to conduct the temporary sale or display of motor
vehicles, off the licensed premises within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Persons conducting the temporary sale or display of motor vehicles
pursuant to this section shall hold a proper occupational license from the city
and comply with planning and zoning regulations all other applicable
ordinances, statues or regulations.
(Ord. O-19-04, passed 6-8-04)
CHAPTER 119: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
119.01   Rationale and findings
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Classifications
   
119.04   License required
   
119.05   Issuance of license
   
119.06   Fees
   
119.07   Inspection
   
119.08   Expiration and renewal of license
   
119.09   Suspension
   
119.10   Revocation
   
119.11   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
119.12   Transfer of license
   
119.13   Hours of operation
   
119.14   Regulations pertaining to operation of adult arcade or adult motion
picture theater
   
119.15   Loitering; exterior lighting; monitoring requirements
   
119.16   Applicability to existing businesses
   
119.17   Prohibited conduct
   
119.18   Scienter required to prove violation or business licensee liability
   
119.19   Conflicting code provisions repealed
 
   
119.99 Penalty
§ 119.01 RATIONALE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and Rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the City Council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Bellanca v. N.Y. State Liquor
Authority, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); Sewell v. Georgia, 435 U.S. 982 (1978); FW/PBS,
Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); City of Dallas v. Stanglin, 490
U.S. 19 (1989); and 600 Marshall Entm't Concepts, LLC v. City of Memphis, 705
F.3d 576 (6th Cir. 2013); Big Dipper Entm't, LLC v. City of Warren, 641 F.3d
715 (6th Cir. 2011); EastBrooks Books, Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 360 (6th
Cir. 2009); Entm't Prods., Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 372 (6th Cir. 2009);
Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555 F.3d 512 (6th Cir. 2009);
Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); 729,
Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court, 515 F.3d 485 (6th Cir. 2008); Deja Vu of
Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan Gov't of Nashville and Davidson County, 466
F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, L.L.C, v. Union Township Bd.
Of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir. 2005) (en banc); Bronco's Entm't, Ltd. v.
Charter Twp. Of Van Buren, 421 F.3d 440 (6th Cir. 2005); Little Mack Entm't II,
Inc. v. Twp. Of Marengo, 2008 WL 2783252 (W.D. Mich. July 17, 2008); Richland
Bookmart, Inc. v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); 84 Video/Newsstand,
Inc. v. Sartini, 2011 WL 3904097 (6th Cir. Sept. 7, 2011); Big Dipper Entm't,
LLC v. City of Warren, 658 F. Supp. 2d 831 (E.D. Mich. 2009); Kentucky
Restaurant Concepts, Inc. v. City of Louisville and Jefferson County, 209 F.
Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky. 2002); Restaurant Ventures of Lexington- Fayette Urban
County Gov't, 60 S.W.3d 572 (Ct. App. Ky. 2001); Mr. B's Bar & Lounge, Inc. v.
Louisville, 630 S.W.2d 564 (Ct. App. Ky. 1981); Commonwealth v. Jameson, 215
S.W.3d 9 (Ky. 2007); Blue Movies, Inc. v. Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government, 317 S.W.3d 23 (Ky. 2010); LM Entm't, Inc. v. City of Mt. Sterling,
2009 WL 1974549 (Ky. Ct. App. July 10, 2009); Imaginary Images, Inc. v. Evans,
612 F.3d 736 (4th Cir. 2010); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita County, 289 F.3d 358 (5th
Cir. 2002); Ocello v. Koster, 354 S.W.3d 187 (Mo. 2011); Plaza Group
Properties, LLC v. Spencer County Plan Commission, 877 N.E.2d 877 (Ind. Ct.
App. 2007); Flanigan's Enters., Inc. v. Fulton County, 596 F.3d 1265 (11th Cir.
2010); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186
(9th Cir. 2004); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir.
2003); Peek-a-Boo Lounge v. Manatee County, 630 F.3d 1346 (11th Cir. 2011);
Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir.2007);
Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 348 F.3d 1182 (10th Cir. 2003); Williams v.
Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); Jacksonville Property Rights Ass'n,
Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 635 F.3d 1266 (11th Cir. 2011); H&A Land Corp. v.
City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Hang On, Inc. v. City of
Arlington, 65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995); Fantasy Ranch, Inc. v. City of
Arlington, 459 F.3d 546 (5th Cir. 2006); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of
Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St.
Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Movie Sales,
Inc. v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Spokane Arcade,
Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); DCR, Inc. v. Pierce
County, 964 P.2d 380 (Wash. Ct. App. 1998); City of New York v. Hommes, 724
N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999); Taylor v. State, No. 01-01-00505-CR, 2002 WL1722154
(Tex. App. July 25, 2002); Fantasyland Video, Inc. v. County of San Diego, 505
F.3d 996 (9th Cir. 2007); Stardust, 3007 LLC v. City of Brookhaven, 899 F.3d
1164 (11th Cir. 2018); Tokyo Gwinnett, LLC v. Gwinnett County, No. l:15-cv-
2606, 2022 WL 1027633 (N.D. Ga., April 6, 2022); HR-Indianapolis, LLC v.
Consol. City of Indianapolis/Marion County, 889 F.3d 432 (7th Cir. 2018); HR-
Indianapolis, LLC v. Consol. City of Indianapolis/Marion County, 265 F. Supp.
3d 873 (S.D. Ind. 2017); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir.
2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C, v. City of Littleton, Civil Action No. 99-N-1696,
Memorandum Decision and Order (D. Colo. March 31, 2001); People ex rel. Deters
v. The Lion's Den, Inc., Case No. 04-4 CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction
Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable
Consultants, Inc. v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning
secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses,
including, but not limited to, "Correlates of Current Transactional Sex among a
Sample of Female Exotic Dancers in Baltimore, MD," Journal of Urban Health
(2011); "Does the Presence of Sexually Oriented Businesses Relate to Increased
Levels of Crime?" Crime & Delinquency (2012) (Louisville, KY); Metropolis,
Illinois-2011-12; Manatee County, Florida-2007; Hillsborough County, Florida-
2006; Clarksville, Indiana-2009; El Paso, Texas-2008; Memphis, Tennessee -
2006; New Albany, Indiana- 2009; Louisville, Kentucky-2004; Fulton County, GA-
2001; Chattanooga, Tennessee-1999-2003; Jackson County, Missouri- 2008; Ft.
Worth, Texas- 2004; Kennedale, Texas-2005; Greensboro, North Carolina-2003;
Dallas, Texas-1997; Houston, Texas-1997, 1983; Phoenix, Arizona-1995-98, 1979;
Tucson, Arizona-1990; Spokane, Washington- 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota-1994;
Austin, Texas-1986; Indianapolis, Indiana-1984; Garden Grove, California-1991;
Los Angeles, California-1977; Whittier, California-1978; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma-1986; New York, New York Times Square- 1994; the Report of the
Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented
Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota); Dallas, Texas-2007; "Rural
Hotspots: The Case of Adult Businesses," 19 Criminal Justice Policy Review 153
(2008); "Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual
Violence," by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice Center for
Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; "Sexually Oriented Businesses:
An Insider's View," by David Sherman, presented to the Michigan House Committee
on Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000; Sex Store Statistics and
Articles; and Law Enforcement and Private Investigator Affidavits (Adult
Cabarets in Forest Park, GA and Sandy Springs, GA), the City Council finds:
      (1) Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation. Alcohol consumption impairs judgement and
lowers inhibitions, thereby increasing the risk of adverse secondary effects.
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area.
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the City has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects
is the city’s rationale for this chapter. Additionally, the city’s interest in
regulating sexually oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary
effects of either current or future sexually oriented businesses that may
locate in the city. The city finds that the cases and documentation relied on
in this chapter are reasonably believed to be relevant to said secondary
effects.
   The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and
legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-27-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined hereunder shall
have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   “ADMINISTRATOR.” The Administrator Director/City Administrator or his or her
designee.
   “ADULT ARCADE.” A commercial establishment to which the public is permitted
or invited that maintains booths or rooms smaller than 100 square feet, wherein
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images characterized
by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   “ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE.” A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
“SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES” or “SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.” A principal
business activity exists where the commercial establishment meets any one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   At least 35% of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists
of said items; or
      (2)   At least 35% of the establishment’s revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items; or
      (3)   The establishment maintains at least 35% of its floor space for the
display, sale, and/or rental or said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are rented or sold,
shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display, sale, or rental
of said items); or
      (4)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet of its floor
space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are
rented or sold, shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display,
sale, or rental of said items); or
      (5)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least 500
of said items; or
      (6)   The establishment regularly makes said items available for sale or
rental and holds itself out, in any medium, as an establishment that caters to
adult sexual interests.
   “ADULT CABARET.” A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment that regularly offers live semi- nude conduct.
No establishment shall avoid classification as an adult cabaret by offering
nude conduct.
   “ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.” A commercial establishment to which the
public is permitted or invited that maintains viewing rooms that are 100 square
feet or larger wherein films or videos characterized by their emphasis upon
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown.
   “CHARACTERIZED BY.” Describing the essential character or quality of an
item. As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   “CITY.” The City of Florence, Kentucky.
   “EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT.” Describe and pertain to any person who
works or engages in activity for pay on the premises of a sexually oriented
business, on a full- time, part-time, temporary, or contract basis, regardless
of whether the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent, lessee, or otherwise. “EMPLOYEE” does not include a person exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises, or an attorney, accountant, or similar state-
licensed professional performing professional service for the business.
   “ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT.” Shall mean and include any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   “FLOOR SPACE.” The floor area inside an establishment that is visible or
accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   “HEARING OFFICER.” An attorney, not otherwise employed by the city,
appointed by the City Council to serve until a successor is appointed, and
retained to serve as an independent tribunal to conduct hearings under this
chapter.
   “INFLUENTIAL INTEREST.” The actual power to influence or control the
operation, management, or policies of the sexually oriented business or legal
entity which operates the sexually oriented business. An individual is deemed
to have an “influential interest” if the individual:
      (1)   Is the on-site general manager of the sexually oriented business;
      (2)   Owns a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or of any
class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holds an office (such as president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director, and the like) in a legal entity
which operates the sexually oriented business.
   “LICENSEE.” A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the
case of an “EMPLOYEE,” it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   “NUDITY OR NUDE CONDUCT.” The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, or anus, with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple and areola. For purposes of this definition, a “FULLY OPAQUE
COVERING” must not consist of any substance that can be washed or peeled off
the skin (such as paint, make-up, or latex).
   “OPERATE.” To cause to function or to put or keep in a state of doing
business.
   “OPERATOR.” Any person who manages, supervises, or controls the sexually
oriented business or a portion thereof. A person who may be found to be an
operator regardless of whether that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee
of the businses.
   “PERSON.” Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
   “PREMISES.” The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually oriented business license.
   “REGIONAL SHOPPING MALL (ENCLOSED).” A group of retail and other commercial
establishments that is planned, developed, and managed as a single property,
with on-site parking provided around the perimeter of the shopping center, and
that is generally at least 40 acres in size and flanked by two or more large
“anchor” stores, such as department stores. The common walkway or “mall” is
enclosed, climate-controlled and lighted, usually with an inward orientation of
the stores facing the walkway.
   “REGULARLY.” The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing
basis.
   “SEMI-NUDE OR SEMI-NUDITY.” The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks, with
less than a fully opaque covering. This definition shall include the lower
portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the
cleavage of the human female breasts exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse,
shirt, leotard, or similar wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed
in whole or in part. For purposes of this definition, a “FULLY OPAQUE COVERING”
must not consist of any substance that can be washed or peeled off of the skin
(such as paint, make-up, or latex).
   “SEXUAL DEVICE.” Any three dimensional object designed for stimulation of
the male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, nipple, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt plugs,
nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
   “SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP.” A commercial establishment:
      (1)   Where more than 100 sexual devices are regularly made available for
sale or rental; or
      (2)   Where sexual devices are regularly made available for sale or
rental and the establishment regularly gives special prominence to sexual
devices (e.g., by using lighted display cases for sexual devices, having a
large variety of sexual devices, having a room or discrete area of the
establishment significantly devoted to sexual devices, or positioning sexual
devices near cash registers or similar points of sale).
      This definition shall not be construed to include an establishment
located within an enclosed regional shopping mall, an establishment containing
a pharmacy that employs a licensed pharmacist to fill prescriptions on the
premises, or an establishment that is enrolled in Medicare as a durable medical
equipment, prosthetics, and supplies (DMEPOS) supplier.
   “SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.” An “ADULT ARCADE,” an “ADULT BOOKSTORE,” an
“ADULT CABARET,” an “ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER,” or a “SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP.”
   “SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.”
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   “SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.” Any of the following specified crimes for
which less than five years elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   KRS 510.040, 510.050, or 510.060 (rape in the first, second, or
third degree); KRS 510.070, 510.080, or 510.090 (sodomy in the first, second,
or third degree); KRS 510.110, 510.120, or 510.130 (sexual abuse in the first,
second, or third degree); KRS 510.140 (sexual misconduct); KRS 510.148, 510.150
(indecent exposure);
      (2)   KRS 517.050 (falsifying business records);
      (3)   KRS 529.020, 529.030, 529.040, or 529.050 (prostitution, promoting
prostitution in the first or second degree); KRS 529.070, (permitting
prostitution);
      (4)   KRS 531.020, 531.030, or 531.040 (distributing obscene matter,
distributing obscene matter to minors, using minors to distribute obscene
matter);
      (5)   KRS 218A.140, et seq. (offenses relating to controlled substances);
      (6)   Any offense listed in KRS 531.300 through 531.370 (sexual
exploitation of minors offenses);
      (7)   Engaging in organized crime (KRS 506.120) relating to a sexually
oriented business;
      (8)   Any criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit one of
the foregoing offenses; or
      (9)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Kentucky, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   “SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in (1) above.
   “TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL” (of a sexually oriented business). Any of
the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or2010 S-16
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   “VIEWING ROOM.” The room or booth where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc, or other video on an image-producing device.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classifications for sexually oriented businesses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstore;
   (B)   Adult cabaret;
   (C)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (D)   Adult arcade; and
   (E)   Sexual device shop.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business License. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business in the city without a valid sexually oriented
business license.
   (B)   Employee License. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
“EMPLOYEE,” as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
city without a valid sexually oriented business employee license, except that a
person who is a licensee under a valid sexually oriented business license shall
not be required to also obtain a sexually oriented business employee license.
It shall be unlawful for any person who operates a sexually oriented business
to employ a person at the establishment who does not have a valid sexually
oriented business employee license.
   (C)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the City Administrator a completed application made on a form
provided by the City Administrator. A sexually oriented business may designate
an individual with an influential interest in the business to file its
application for a sexually oriented business license in person on behalf of the
business. The application shall be signed as required by subsection (D) herein
and shall be notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it
contains, for each person required to sign the application, the information
and/or items required in this division, accompanied by the appropriate
licensing fee:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years.
      (2)   Current business address or another mailing address, and an email
address, for the applicant.
      (3)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license, a picture
identification document containing the applicants date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency.
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business, along with a list of the business’s employees
and a list identifying each of the business’s operators, as defined in §
119.02.
      (5)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
      (6)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in §
119.02, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable.
      (7)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and
at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (8)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations.
         The information provided pursuant to this division shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
City Administrator within ten working days of a change of circumstances which
would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
      (9)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, a
statement whether the applicant is the owner of the premises wherein the
establishment will be operated or holds a lease thereon for the period to be
covered by the license. If the applicant is a lease holder, a copy of the lease
shall be submitted with the license application.
      (10)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business employee
license, the name and address of the establishment where the applicant intents
to use the employee license.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (E)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter will not be disclosed by the
office of the City Administrator under public records laws except as may be
required, and only to the extent required, by governing law or court order. Any
information protected by the right to privacy as recognized by state or federal
law shall be redacted prior to such disclosure.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business License. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business license, the City Administrator shall issue a
temporary license to the applicant within five business days if the completed
application is from a preexisting sexually oriented business that is, in all
respects, lawfully operating in the city and the completed application, on its
face, shows that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented
business license. The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of
the city to deny or grant an annual license. Within 30 days of the filing of a
completed sexually oriented business license application, the City
Administrator shall either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written
notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The City Administrator
shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the location requirements of any ordinance or regulation
in effect in the county.
      (5)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in § 119.02.
      (7)   The applicant is neither the owner of the premises wherein the
establishment will be operated, nor the holder of a lease thereon for the
period to be covered by the license.
      (8)   An employee or operator of the applicant operated a sexually
oriented business that, in the previous five years (and due to conduct
occurring when the person was an operator of the sexually oriented business),
has:
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
   (B)   Employee License. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the City Administrator shall issue
a temporary license to the applicant within three business days if the
applicant seeks licensure to work in a licensed sexually oriented business and
the completed application, on its face, shows that the applicant is entitled to
an annual sexually oriented business employee license. The temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual
license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business
employee license application, the City Administrator shall either issue a
license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license
to the applicant. The City Administrator shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in § 119.02.
      (6)   The applicant has expressed the intent to use the sexually oriented
business employee license at an establishment that is not licensed by the city
to operate a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be kept on the premises of the sexually
oriented business so that it may be inspected by the City Administrator and his
or her agents at any time that the business is occupied by patrons or is open
to the public. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s
license on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then
working.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.06 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$100 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and $50 for
annual renewal; $50 for the initial sexually oriented business employee license
and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.07 INSPECTION.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the City Administrator and the City Code Enforcement Officers, and his
or her agents to inspect, from time to time on an occasional basis, the
portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons are
permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific regulations
of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented business is
occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section shall be narrowly
construed to authorize only reasonable inspections of the licensed premises
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.08 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter. When a renewal license is issued, it shall become effective the day
after the previous license expires and shall remain valid for a period of one
calendar year from its effective date unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall issue a written notice of intent to
suspend a sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated
this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other
person to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall issue a written notice of intent to
suspend a sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to
exceed 30 days if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated
this chapter.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall issue a written notice of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly
violates this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee’s license
has become effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall issue a written notice of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 21 years to consume alcohol on the premises of the sexually oriented
business;
      (7)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to appear in a semi-nude condition or in a state of nudity on
the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (8)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed three or more
violations of this chapter within a 12-month period; or
      (9)   The licensee has failed to meet or maintain the qualifications to
be issued or to hold the license.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year
and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business employee license for one year from the date
revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.11 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, REVOCATION, AND SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the City Administrator issues a written notice of intent to
deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the City Administrator shall immediately
send such notice, which shall state the grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee by personal delivery or certified mail or
email. The notice shall be directed to the most current business address or
other mailing address or email address on file with the City Administrator for
the applicant or licensee. The notice shall also set forth the following: The
applicant or licensee shall have ten business days after the issuance of the
written notice to deliver, at the office of the City Administrator, a written
request for a hearing that specifies the alleged defects in the City
Administrator’s licensing decision. If the applicant or licensee does not
request a hearing within said ten business days, the City Administrator’s
written notice shall become a final denial, suspension, or revocation, as the
case may be, on the fifteenth business day after it is issued.
      (2)   If the applicant or licensee (hereafter, "petitioner") does make a
written request for a hearing within said ten business days, then the City
Administrator shall, within ten business days after receiving the request, send
a notice to the petitioner indicating the date, time, and place of the hearing.
The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the date that the hearing notice is issued. The hearing may be
transcribed by either party.
      (3)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall have the opportunity to
present all relevant arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the City
Administrator's witnesses. The City Administrator may also be represented by
counsel, present evidence and witnesses, and cross-examine any of the
petitioner's witnesses. The hearing shall take no longer than one day, unless
extended at the request of the petitioner to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The petitioner shall have the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that there is no
substantial evidence to support the City Administrator's licensing decision.
The Hearing Officer shall affirm the City Administrator's licensing decision if
any substantial evidence in the record at the hearing supports any of the
grounds set forth in the written notice of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke.
The Hearing Officer shall issue a final written decision, including specific
reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter, to the petitioner and the
city within five days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the petitioner of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the tenth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer's decision
finds that there is no substantial evidence to support the City Administrator's
licensing decision, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the
issuance of the decision, order the City Administrator to immediately withdraw
the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the petitioner
in writing by certified mail or email of such action. If the petitioner is not
yet licensed, the City Administrator shall contemporaneously therewith issue
the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging the licensing decision is initiated,
the city shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is, in all respects, lawfully operating as a
sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is
lawfully employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on
which the completed business or employee application, as applicable, is filed
with the City Administrator. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal,
challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement of any denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license, the City Administrator shall
immediately issue the petitioner a provisional license. The provisional license
shall allow the petitioner to continue operation of the sexually oriented
business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business employee and
will expire upon the court's entry of a judgment on the petitioner's appeal or
other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement, unless the
provisional license is suspended or revoked prior to entry of said judgment.
While a provisional license is in effect, the provisional licensee shall comply
with the regulations set forth in §§ 119.07, 119.13, 119.14, 119.15, and
119.18, and any violations thereof shall be subject to the provisions of §
119.99. A provisional license may be suspended under § 119.09 or revoked under
§ 119.10, and if an appeal is taken from that suspension or revocation
decision, the city will issue no further provisional license or stay of
enforcement.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO OPERATION OF ADULT ARCADE OR ADULT MOTION
PICTURE THEATER.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult arcade or
adult motion picture theater shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The City Administrator may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 100 square feet is
limited to one person.
         (b)   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (c)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         (d)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (e)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in division (5)(a) though (e) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator's station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the operator's stations.
The view required in this division must be by direct line of sight from the
operator's station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator's station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this division remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section
to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
      (10)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a
viewing room less than 100 square feet in area that is occupied by any other
patron.
      (11)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one
foot of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 100 square feet or
larger in area.
      (12)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.15 LOITERING; EXTERIOR LIGHTING; MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 90 minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one (1.0) foot candle as measured at
the floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously
at all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot candles as
measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.16 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All existing sexually oriented businesses that are, in all respects,
lawfully operating in the city in compliance with all state and local laws on
the effective date of this chapter, and sexually oriented business employees
that are, in all respects, lawfully working in a lawfully operating sexually
oriented business in the city on the effective date of this chapter, may
continue operation or employment until the expiration, suspension, or
revocation of their current license. Further licensing shall be subject to this
chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided for in §
119.16(A), sexually oriented businesses shall comply with this chapter on the
date that it takes effect.
(Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.17 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage at
least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 1,000 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business
shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer
on the premises of a sexually oriented business. No customer shall knowingly or
intentionally touch such an employee or the clothing of such an employee on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No person shall possess, use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (F)   No operator of a sexually oriented business shall knowingly or
recklessly allow a room in the sexually oriented business to be simultaneously
occupied by any patron and any other employee who is semi-nude or who appears
semi-nude on the premises of the sexually oriented business, unless an operator
of the sexually oriented business is present in the same room.
   (G)   No operator or licensee of a sexually oriented business shall violate
the regulations in this section or knowingly or recklessly allow an employee or
any other person to violate the regulations in this section. Without limiting
the scope of the preceding sentence, an operator shall be deemed to have
recklessly allowed another person to violate a regulation if, at the time of
the violation, the operator failed to have an employee on duty and situated in
at least one operator's station having a direct line of sight to the area of
the establishment where the violation occurred.
   (H)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Administrator, and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E), shall be
posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as
to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct,
or obscure said sign.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.18 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a reckless mental state is
necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.19 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS REPEALED.
   Any provision(s) in this code specifically in conflict with any provision in
this chapter is hereby deemed inoperative and repealed.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provided for in KRS 83A.065(2). Each day a violation is committed, or permitted
to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   (B)   The city's legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in
the name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no
action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or
administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this
chapter, or any of the laws in force in the city or to exempt anyone violating
this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be incurred.
   (C)   Any premises, building, dwelling, or other structure in which a
sexually oriented business is repeatedly operated or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall be subject to civil
abatement proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-2-07, passed 2-22-07; Am. Ord. O-28-2023, passed 11-7-23)
CHAPTER 120: CABLE SERVICES
Section
   
120.01   Construction
   
120.02   Scope
   
120.03   Definitions
   
120.04   Failure of city to enforce regulations
   
120.05   Repeal of inconsistent resolutions and ordinances
   
120.06   Resolution of inconsistencies with federal or state rules, regulations
or laws
   
120.07   Notices
   
120.08   Indemnity
   
120.09   Liability insurance
   
120.10   Furnishing of reports
   
120.11   Books and records
   
120.12   Notification of customer's and operator's rights and responsibilities;
general policy
   
120.13   Notification of customer's and operator's rights and responsibilities;
minimum contents
   
120.14   Billing practices
   
120.15   Billing credit or refunds for service outages, interruptions;
substandard signal or picture quality or unsolicited service
   
120.16   Customer service performance
   
120.17   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited
   
120.18   Use of equipment, return of equipment, security deposits, and their
return
   
120.19   Service logs
   
120.20   Restoration of a subscriber's property
   
120.21   Service requests, complaints, and response times
   
120.22   Operator required to maintain sufficient repair parts and sufficient
repair personnel
   
120.23   New installations; connections: regular, promotional, seasonal, short-
term, and pay-per-view; re- connections
   
120.24   Disconnection for non-payment
   
120.25   Voluntary disconnections and downgrades
   
120.26   Resolution of complaints
   
120.27   Continued use of individual antennas protected
   
120.28   Construction of good quality
   
120.29   Conditions on use of streets and public ways
   
120.30   Construction standards
   
120.31   Line extension policy
   
120.32   Permits and licenses
   
120.33   Standby power
   
120.34   Emergency alert/emergency override
   
120.35   Public service installation
   
120.36   Preventive maintenance program
   
120.37   Extent of grant of franchise
   
120.38   Term of franchise
   
120.39   Payment of multichannel video programming services tax
   
120.40   Relief from these regulations
   
120.41   Assignment or transfer of franchise
   
120.42   Default of franchise; revocation, termination or cancellation of
franchise
   
120.43   Capacity of system
   
120.44   Description of cable television distribution system
   
120.45   Public, educational, governmental, and leased access
   
120.46   Miscellaneous provisions: tampering and unauthorized reception of
certain services
   
120.47   Equal employment opportunity
   
120.48   Nature of regulations
   
120.49   Most favored nation clause
§ 120.01 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed in light of applicable federal and state
laws and regulations governing cable television.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be effective within the geographical limits of the City
of Florence, including any areas subsequently annexed by the city.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACCESS CHANNEL." A government, education, or public channel which is
carried on the cable system, but which is not part of any institutional
network.
   "BASIC CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE." Any service tier which includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals.
   "CITY." The City of Florence.
   "COUNTY." The Boone County Fiscal Court, Kentucky or its lawful successor.
   "FCC" or "FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION." The federal administrative
agency, or lawful successor, authorized to oversee cable television and other
multi-channel video provider regulation on a national level.
   "FRANCHISE." The initial non-exclusive authorization or subsequent renewal
granted by the city which authorizes a person to construct, operate and
maintain a cable system in all or part of the city.
   "FRANCHISEE." The legal entity granted the cable television franchise by the
city and any entity having any rights, liabilities or interest to the franchise
whether by assignment, transfer or other means.
   "OPERATOR." Franchisee, its assignee or transferee.
   "PAY-PER-VIEW EVENT(S)" or "PAY-PER-VIEW MOVIE(S)." The delivery over the
cable system of audio and video signals in an unintelligible form for a set fee
or charge over and above the charge for standard or basic service and in
addition to any premium channel on a per event or per movie basis where said
unintelligible or unusable form is made intelligible for viewing only to
subscribers paying a separate fee or charge for the viewing of the event or
events.
   "PREMIUM CHANNEL." The delivery over the cable system of audio and video
signals in an unintelligible form to subscribers for a monthly fee or charge,
(over and above the charge for standard or basic service) on a per channel
basis where said unintelligible or unusable form for viewing is made
intelligible only to subscribers paying a separate fee or charge for the
viewing or use of the signals.
   "PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS FACILITIES."
      (1)   Channel capacity designated for public, educational or governmental
use; and
      (2)   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   "RATE." The monthly price paid by a subscriber in order to receive cable
service.
   "SERVICE DAY." Those days the United States Postal Service delivers regular
mail (typically, Monday through Saturday, excluding federal holidays).
   "SERVICE OUTAGE." The loss of picture or sound on all basic subscriber
channels, or one or more auxiliary programming channels (including tiers and
pay programming), and which is not caused by the failure or malfunction of a
subscriber's television receiver or by the error of the subscriber.
   "SUBSCRIBER." A person lawfully receiving service delivered over a cable
system by a cable operator.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.04 FAILURE OF CITY TO ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The operator shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter, or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions.
   (B)   This chapter and the rights and responsibilities it imposes on the
operator may not be unilaterally amended without the prior written consent of
the operator.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.05 REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   To the extent that there is any resolution or ordinance which in part, or in
whole, is directly inconsistent with this chapter, such part, or such whole, of
the prior resolution or ordinance shall be repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.06 RESOLUTION OF INCONSISTENCIES WITH FEDERAL OR STATE RULES, REGULATIONS
OR LAWS.
   In any case of an actual inconsistency between any provision or section of
this chapter, and any provision or section of a federal or Kentucky rule,
regulation, or law, then the federal or Kentucky rule, regulation, or law shall
not only supersede the effect of this chapter, but also control in any local
application.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.07 NOTICES.
   Both the city and the operator shall provide the other party with the name
and address of the contact person designated to receive notices, filings,
reports, records, documents, and other correspondence. All notices shall be
delivered to each party's contact person by certified mail, return receipt
requested, personal service with a signed receipt of delivery, or overnight
with receipt verification. All other filings, reports, records, documents, and
other correspondence may be delivered by any permissible means including, but
not limited to: facsimile transmission ("faxing"); electronic mail ("email")
personal service; overnight mail or package delivery; or delivery via cable.
The delivery of all notices, reports, records, and other correspondence shall
be deemed to have occurred at the time of receipt (unless otherwise designated
by state law).
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.08 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   To the extent permitted by law, the operator shall at all times
defend, indemnify, protect, save harmless, and exempt the city, Mayor and City
Council members, their officers, and employees from any, and all, penalty,
damage, or charges arising out of claims, suits, demands, causes of action, or
award of damages whether compensatory or punitive, or expenses arising
therefrom, either at law or in equity, which might be claimed now or in the
future, which may arise out of, or be caused by, the construction, erection,
location, products performance, operation, maintenance, repair, installation,
replacement, removal or restoration of the system within the city by a
negligent act or omission of the operator, its agents or employees,
contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, or implied or authorized
representatives. With respect to the penalties, damages or charges referenced
herein, attorneys' fees are included as those costs which may be recovered by
the city.
   (B)   The city, Mayor, and City Council specifically reserve the right to
retain counsel of their own choice, at their own expense.
   (C)   If the operator obtains counsel for the city, the Mayor, or the City
Councilpersons, then any one of them shall have the right to approve counsel,
provided, however, that the city shall not unreasonably withhold their approval
of counsel.
   (D)   With respect to the operator's own defense of such actions noted in
this section, it is understood that such operator reserves the right to select
and retain, without the city's approval, counsel of the operator's choice, at
the operator's own expense.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.09 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain insurance from companies approved by the
city, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, to protect the city and
the franchisee and their officers, agents and employees from and against claims
caused by the construction, erection, operation or maintenance of any aspect of
the system. The amount of such insurance shall be no less than the following:
      (1)   Commercial General Liability Insurance:
            Per occurrence    $5,000,000
            Products and completed operations aggregate   $5,000,000
            Property damage general aggregate   $5,000,000
      (2)   Commercial Automobile Insurance:
            Per occurrence    $5,000,000
   (B)   These limits may include self-insured retentions. Workers'
compensation shall also be provided as required by the laws of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky. Commercial general and automobile insurance shall include the
city, as additional insured for their vicarious liability and shall provide 30
days notice to the city in the event of cancellation of any coverage afforded
in said policies prior to the date said cancellation shall become effective.
Certificates of insurance certifying the policies required hereunder shall be
furnished to and filed with the City Clerk prior to the commencement of
operations or the expiration of prior certificates, as the case may be.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.10 FURNISHING OF REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator shall timely submit those reports, statements, and logs
required by this franchise.
   (B)   Certificates of insurance for renewal or replacement insurance
policies shall be delivered to the city at least 15 days before the expiration
of the insurance which such policies are to renew or replace.
   (C)   The operator shall submit a report to the city, within 90 days after
the close of each quarter of its fiscal year, which contain for the previous
quarter:
      (1)   A customer complaint log which identifies service related
complaints by customers and the resolution of those complaints;
      (2)   The number of additional subscribers to the system;
      (3)   Changes that have occurred in the programming offered by the
system;
      (4)   Additional line extensions and construction activity;
      (5)   A compliance report on the system's compliance with the franchise's
customer service standards;
      (6)   A list of all reports and petitions filed by the system with the
Federal Communications Commission; and
      (7)   A compliance report certifying that the system complies with
federal signal leakage tests and all other federally mandated tests. If said
tests reveal noncompliance, the nature of noncompliance shall be specified.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.11 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The operator shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts, and
records of the business and operations under, and in connection with the
system.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to review at the operator's primary
administrative office, all records, pertaining to the city's regulation of the
operator's cable operations in the city, on seven days written notice. Such
review, unless mutually agreed upon, or judicially ordered, should occur within
the operator's regular office hours.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to hire, at its own expense, an
independent certified public accountant, or other business or financial expert,
to review the books and records of the operator. If, after a financial audit,
it is determined that the operator has underpaid amounts owed to the city (in
excess of 5%), then the city may require the operator to reimburse the city for
the actual cost of the audit. Provided, however, absent fraud, all audits shall
be binding on the city.
   (D)   The operator, at the local office, shall keep complete and accurate
books and records of the key aspects of the system's operation in the city for
at least the preceding three years in such a manner that all matters pertaining
to the city can be easily produced and/or verified at the city's request. Also,
the operator shall make available, on seven days advance written notice, those
records that pertain to its operation of the system that may be required by any
other federal or state agency having jurisdiction over cable operators.
Provided, however, that with respect to the obligation to maintain financial
records, the operator shall only be required to maintain the financial records
required by federal law.
   (E)   Communications with regulatory agencies. A listing of all petitions,
applications, communications, reports and all other documents submitted by the
franchisee to the FCC or any other federal or state regulatory commission or
agency shall be filed with the city annually and all such documents shall be
available for inspection at franchisee's office.
   (F)   Annual report. No later than 90 days after the close of the
franchisee's fiscal year, the franchisee shall submit a written report to the
city that contains information as determined by the city including a summary of
complaints and any special reports required by the city.
   (G)   All filings and reports required of the franchisee or any applicants
by this chapter or any franchise agreement shall be made to the city.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.12 NOTIFICATION OF CUSTOMER'S AND OPERATOR'S RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES;
GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   In order to provide customers with the variety of information needed
to make an informed decision, and to ensure that customers are notified of the
rights and responsibilities of the customer and the operator with respect to
the cable system, the operator shall provide customers with a written "Notice
of a Customer's and Operator's Rights and Responsibilities."
   (B)   Unless expressly prohibited by the state, the operator may comply with
any notice requirements by providing said "Notice" by mail to the subscriber,
through newspaper publication or over the cable system, on a channel clearly
designated for the dissemination of such information - (such a channel need not
be solely designated for dissemination of such information, and may, in fact,
be used at other times for any lawful purpose).
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.13 NOTIFICATION OF CUSTOMER'S AND OPERATOR'S RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES;
MINIMUM CONTENTS.
   (A)   When the operator provides a notice to customers concerning their
rights such "Notice" should contain the following:
      (1)   An up-to-date listing of services provided;
      (2)   Notification of a subscriber's ability to purchase or lease, from
the operator, parental control mechanisms, or other device which will prohibit
the viewing of a particular program service during a period selected by the
subscriber;
      (3)   A listing and explanation of rates and charges, credit refund
policy, connection and involuntary disconnection policies;
      (4)   The complaint resolution procedures;
      (5)   A listing and explanation of billing options available (such as
monthly or yearly, and/or discounts for pre-payments);
      (6)   The customer service office hours and telephone number(s);
      (7)   The method of securing a voluntary disconnection; and
      (8)   The equipment use and return policy together with any required
security deposits.
   (B)   The "Notice" shall be in plain, simple, understandable English.
   (C)   The "Notice" may be delivered to a subscriber via an insert in the
subscriber's periodic invoice, through a special mailing, by newspaper or
publication over a channel clearly designated for the dissemination of such
information.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.14 BILLING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Whenever there is a change in the operator's billing practices or
payment requirements, the operator shall notify subscribers within 30 days of
the effective date of such billing practices or payment requirements.
   (B)   In any case where a subscriber requests a cancellation or reduction of
service within 30 days after the notification of a scheduled rate or charge
adjustment, then the subscriber's liability for the newly implemented rate or
charge shall cease from the moment that the rate or charge adjustment becomes
effective.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.15 BILLING CREDIT OR REFUNDS FOR SERVICE OUTAGES, INTERRUPTIONS;
SUBSTANDARD SIGNAL OR PICTURE QUALITY OR UNSOLICITED SERVICE.
   The operator shall, upon request by a subscriber, provide that subscriber
with a pro-rata credit for a service outage or interruption exceeding one
service day in duration, provided that the outage is not caused or is not a
result of matters beyond the immediate control of the operator.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.16 CUSTOMER SERVICE PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Definitions:
      "NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS." Those hours during which most similar businesses
in the community are open to serve customers. This will include some evening
hours (at least one night per week) and/or some weekend hours.
      "NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS." Conditions that are within the control of
the operator. Those conditions which are not within the control of the operator
include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power
outages, telephone network outages, and severe weather. Those conditions which
are ordinarily within the control of the operator include, but are not limited
to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or
seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the system.
      "SERVICE INTERRUPTION." A service outage which is not caused by the
failure or malfunction of a subscriber's television receiver or by the error of
the subscriber. This term affects the timing of when the operator must respond
to a service problem.
   (B)   Customer service standards. Office hours and telephone availability:
      (1)   The operator will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.
         (a)   Trained company representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
         (b)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by
a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by trained
company representatives on the next business day.
      (2)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis. The
operator shall not be required to acquire equipment or perform surveys to
measure compliance with telephone answering standards unless an historical
record of complaint indicates a clear failure to comply.
      (3)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
      (4)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
      (5)   The operator will locate an office to serve as a center for payment
and equipment exchanges within the territorial confines of Florence. The office
location will be selected by the operator so as to allow convenient access by
subscribers and will be open during normal business hours.
   (C)   Installations, outages, and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four standards will be met no less than 95%
of the time measured on a quarterly basis.
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed in accordance with the line extension policy set
forth in §
120.31. Standard installations are those that are located up to 150 feet from
the existing distribution system.
      (2)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, the cable
operator will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no event
later than four hours after the interruption becomes known.
      (3)   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. (The operator may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer.)
      (4)   The operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
      (5)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the customer.
   (D)   Communications between cable operator and cable subscribers.
      (1)   Notifications to subscribers:
         (a)   The cable operator shall provide written information on each of
the following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually
to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
            1.   Products and services offered;
            2.   Prices and options for programming services and the conditions
of subscription to programming and other services;
            3.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
            4.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
            5.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
            6.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the local franchise authority's cable office.
         (b)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
service or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
30 days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control of the
cable operator. In addition, the cable operator shall notify subscribers 30
days in advance of any significant changes in the other information required by
the preceding paragraph.
      (2)   Billing:
         (a)   Bills will be clear, concise, and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates, and credits.
         (b)   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must respond to
a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
      (3)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         (a)   In the customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
         (b)   Within 30 days after return of equipment supplied by the cable
operator.
      (4)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.17 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The operator shall not, as to rules, regulations, rates, charges,
provision of service, or use of facilities and equipment, make, allow, or grant
any undue preference or advantage to any person, nor subject any person to
prejudice or disadvantage on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex,
national origin, handicap, religious affiliation, or location of residence.
   (B)   The operators shall not deny cable service, or the extension of cable
service, to any group of potential residential cable subscribers because of the
income of the residents or the local area in which such group resides.
   (C)   This section, however, does not prohibit the operator from offering a
promotional or incentive discount rate or charge.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit the operator from denying service based
on location of residence, if that residence is outside the parameters for line
extension as detailed herein.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the operator from denying service to a
subscriber who is more than 30 days delinquent in the payment of any service
bill.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit the operator from implementing a no-
frills service tier for lower income, and/or fixed income individuals.
   (G)   This section does not prohibit the operator from making agreements or
entering into service agreements with multiple dwelling unit owners or
commercial establishments (including hotel, motel, apartments, fraternities,
sororities, and mobile home park owners) to provide service under a bulk
billing or other type of arrangement.
   (H)   The franchisee will comply with all federal and state laws regarding
special service requirements on handicapped customers.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.18 USE OF EQUIPMENT, RETURN OF EQUIPMENT, SECURITY DEPOSITS, AND THEIR
RETURN.
   (A)   The operator may charge an appropriate security deposit provided that
it shall comply with any and all applicable state rules concerning the
imposition, retention, and return of security deposits and does not exceed the
cost of replacement plus recovery.
   (B)   The operator may charge an appropriate security deposit in those
instances where a customer is re-connected after an involuntary disconnection
for non-payment or prior history of unsatisfactory payment.
   (C)   The operator shall return a security deposit after the equipment is
satisfactorily returned or the subscriber maintains a satisfactory payment
history (which is determined as no payment delinquencies within the preceding
12-month period).
   (D)   A customer shall totally and fully reimburse the operator for any
damage or loss to any of the operator's equipment that is due to the customer's
failure to properly maintain and operate such equipment.
   (E)   A customer shall be relieved from any responsibility for reimbursing
the operator for the repair of equipment which malfunctions or does not operate
due to a hidden or latent defect in the equipment, or for equipment which fails
to operate, or improperly operates due to natural occurrences conditioned by
the normal wear and tear of such equipment, however, the customer shall still
be obligated to return said equipment to the operator otherwise undamaged.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.19 SERVICE LOGS.
   (A)   The operator shall be required to keep and maintain service logs,
subject to any limitations imposed by state or federal law, including any
subscriber privacy limitations.
   (B)   The purpose of the service logs is to assist the city in assessing (in
the aggregate) the type, degree, and resolution of customer trouble calls and
written complaints.
   (C)   In addition to any other right of inspection that the city may
possess, it shall have the right to review and inspect a compilation of such
logs. Provided that the operator shall have no obligation to retain any log for
more than three years. However, the city shall not have the right of access,
review, or inspection of any service logs or any information contained within
service logs that are otherwise protected from access, review, or inspection by
state or federal law.
   (D)   This section does not require the operators to maintain service logs
on scheduled installations, upgrades and changes of service.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.20 RESTORATION OF A SUBSCRIBER'S PROPERTY.
   (A)   At any time the operator disturbs the yard, residence, or other real
or personal property of a subscriber, the operator shall ensure that the
subscriber's yard, residence, or other personal property is returned, replaced,
and/or restored to a condition that is sufficiently comparable to the condition
that existed prior to the commencement of the work.
   (B)   The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement, and/or restoration shall be borne by the operator.
   (C)   The requirements imposed upon the operator shall extend to any
subcontractor or independent contractor that the operator might employ to
perform the tasks outlined in this section.
   (D)   Provided, however, the operator has the authority to diligently trim
trees of a private property owner (including a subscriber) which overhang or
intrude into rights-of-way or easements, but only to the extent necessary to
prevent the branches of the trees from coming in contact with the operator's
cable television facilities.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.21 SERVICE REQUESTS, COMPLAINTS, AND RESPONSE TIMES.
   (A)   Except in times of a natural or man-made emergency, or an appointment
scheduled with the mutual consent of a subscriber, the operator shall respond
to the service requests and complaints of subscribers within 36 hours after the
need for service becomes known. Moreover, except in emergency situations, the
operator shall inform the customer whether the service call is scheduled for
the morning, afternoon, or evening hours. If the service call has to be
canceled or rearranged, unless the subscriber decides otherwise, the operator
shall make every effort to notify the customer as soon as possible, and to re-
schedule the service call.
   (B)   The operator may rank-order service calls in order of severity. Total
outages will take precedence over area outages; area outages take precedence
over a single home; and a multichannel problem takes precedence over a single
channel problem.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.22 OPERATOR REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN SUFFICIENT REPAIR PARTS AND SUFFICIENT
REPAIR PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Except in times of a natural or man-made emergency, the operator shall
at all times, have access to, and be able to secure sufficient maintenance and
repair parts and equipment for the system, so that the operator can respond to,
and correct, all subscriber service interruptions within the time periods
specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Except in times of natural or man-made emergency, including severe
weather conditions, or strike, the operator shall have sufficient maintenance
and repair personnel, so that the operator can respond to, and correct,
subscriber service interruptions within the time periods specified in this
chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the other requirements and provisions contained in
this section, the operator shall maintain at least one service technician on
call 24 hours per day.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.23 NEW INSTALLATIONS; CONNECTIONS: REGULAR, PROMOTIONAL, SEASONAL, SHORT-
TERM, AND PAY-PER-VIEW; RE-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   During non-rush periods, new standard installations, promotional,
short-term, or seasonal connections, re-connections, and upgrades of service by
the operator shall be performed and completed within seven days of a customer
requesting such. A standard installation is one that is located within 150 feet
from the existing distribution system. During rush periods new installations,
promotional, short-term, or seasonal connections, re-connections, and upgrades
of service by the operator shall be performed and completed within 14 days of a
customer requesting such, if cable is built to the home.
   (B)   While the operator may charge a customer for installing, connecting,
or reconnecting service, such charge must be explained to customers.
   (C)   In the case of a promotional or seasonal connection, any limitations
or restrictions should be explained prior to the promotional or seasonal
connection.
   (D)   The operator may charge an appropriate re-connection charge or require
a security deposit, in those instances where a customer is re-connected after
an involuntary disconnection for non-payment or a prior history of
unsatisfactory payment.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.24 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   A subscriber shall be considered delinquent in payment if payment is
not made within ten days after receipt of the bill. The operator shall not
disconnect service prior to 30 days after a subscriber's receipt of the unpaid
bill, however, the operator may charge a late fee for any payment which has not
been made after the tenth day from receipt.
   (B)   Receipt of a dishonored check from a subscriber, in response to a
written notice of disconnection, does not constitute payment, and the operator
need not give the subscriber further notice prior to disconnecting service.
   (C)   The operator may add a reasonable collection charge, subject to
applicable state regulations to the subscriber's bill.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.25 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECTIONS AND DOWNGRADES.
   (A)   At any time, a subscriber, who does not have a separate contract with
the operator, may request that a particular service tier, pay channel, premium
channel, informational service, or the entire service be disconnected.
   (B)   A subscriber may request a downgrade from a particular level of
service to a less comprehensive level of service or a less expensive level of
service.
   (C)   From the date that such a subscriber makes such a request for either a
disconnection or downgrade, the operator shall have ten days to disconnect or
downgrade the service tier, pay channel, premium channel, informational
service, or entire service. In the event that the operator does not disconnect
or downgrade service within this period, a subscriber's obligation to pay for
such service shall cease, or in the case of a downgrade, a subscriber's
obligation to pay for the more comprehensive and/or higher priced service shall
cease ten days from the date of the customer request.
   (D)   For a service tier, premium channel or informational service which is
voluntarily disconnected, a subscriber shall pay a pro rata share of the
monthly rate for such service tier, premium channel or informational service.
   (E)   Once a valid connection to a pay-per-view event occurs, the operator
may collect the full advertised or quoted rate should the customer then attempt
to disconnect the pay-per-view event.
   (F)   Provided that the operator does not have to make a trip or add
additional equipment to the subscriber's location to perform a change in
service, no separate disconnect or downgrade charge may be passed onto a
subscriber if it chooses to take advantage of a lower-priced or less
comprehensive service tier. However, to prevent subscriber abuse of this
voluntary disconnection or downgrade policy, a subscriber shall be charged a
minimum one month's full rate for any one service tier which is connected and
then subsequently disconnected.
   (G)   If the operator's equipment is, or has been damaged by a subscriber,
prior to disconnection, then the operator may charge the subscriber with the
entire cost for such damage, provided that the operator notifies the subscriber
within 30 days of the disconnection. A subscriber shall not be required to pay
for equipment failure if the circumstances fall within the normal wear and tear
guidelines.
   (H)   Any refund due a subscriber after disconnection (both for non-payment
and voluntary) shall be made within 45 days after such disconnection.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.26 RESOLUTION OF COMPLAINTS.
   In the event of a subscriber billing or repair complaint, the complaint will
be handled as follows:
   (A)   The operator shall have the initial response to a complaint occur no
later than one service day after receipt of the complaint; and
   (B)   Every attempt will be made to resolve the complaint within 72 hours or
three service days, whichever is longer, after receipt of the complaint.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.27 CONTINUED USE OF INDIVIDUAL ANTENNAS PROTECTED.
   No person shall be required to receive cable service or to physically
connect to the cable system.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.28 CONSTRUCTION OF GOOD QUALITY.
   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, and repair of
the system, the operator shall use materials of good and durable quality and
all such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough, and reliable manner. Such
work shall comply with FCC and industry standards.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.29 CONDITIONS ON USE OF STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   All wires, conduits, cable (coaxial, fiber, or functional equivalent),
and other property and facilities of the operator shall be so located,
constructed, installed, and maintained so as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with usual and customary use, traffic and travel upon the streets,
rights-of-way, easements, and public ways of the city.
   (B)   In the event the operator's system creates a hazardous or unsafe
condition or an unreasonable interference with property, then at its own
expense, the operator shall voluntarily, or upon the request of the city,
remove that part of the system that creates the hazardous condition from the
subject property.
   (C)   The operator shall protect rights-of-way, easements, and support or
temporarily disconnect or relocate in the same street or other public way, any
property of the operator when necessitated by reason of:
      (1)   Traffic conditions;
      (2)   Public safety;
      (3)   A street closing;
      (4)   Street construction or re-surfacing;
      (5)   Change or establishment of street grade; or
      (6)   Installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, storm drains, lift
stations, force mains, power or signal lines.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the operator, within 72 hours of the
request (acting alone or in conjunction with another person) to locate and mark
or otherwise visibly indicate and alert others to the location of its
underground cable (coaxial, fiber or functional equivalent) before employees,
agents, or independent contractors of any entity with a valid permit installs
cable or digs in the marked-off area. Any restoration expense or any damage
caused to the operator's facilities resulting from the failure of an entity to
have the operator's facilities located and marked or as a result of an entity
constructing or digging in a location where the operator's facilities have been
marked, will be the sole responsibility and liability of such entity who
damaged the operator's facilities.
   (E)   The operator shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit, temporarily remove, raise or lower the cable wires to allow the
moving of the building. The expense of temporary removal shall be paid by the
person requesting it, and the operator may require payment in advance. The
operator shall be given not less than 21 days notice of a contemplated move to
arrange for temporary wire changes.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.30 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The methods of construction, installation, maintenance, and repair of
the system shall comply and be consistent with good engineering practices for
cable television systems of similar size and design, and consistent with FCC
technical standards.
   (B)   The operator shall advise the city when a proof of performance test is
scheduled so that the city may have an observer present if so desired.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.31 LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   As a new entrant provider of cable television service, the company's
ability to construct and extend its system will be largely dependent upon the
market penetration and success it achieves over time. In recognition of this
and the many challenges of being a new entrant, the parties agree to the
following:
      (1)   The company will make its cable service available to at least 5% of
the residential households existing in the franchise area by no later than June
30, 2010 ("Phase 1").
      (2)   If the company achieves a market penetration of at least 30% of the
households passed by its cable system after completion of Phase 1, the company
will make its cable service available to at least 20% of the residential
households in the franchise area by no later than December 31, 2012 so long as
the company is achieving a market penetration of at least 30% of the households
passed by its cable system ("Phase 2"). Market penetration will be measured as
of June 30th of each year during Phase 2. If the company is achieving a
penetration of at least 30% of the households passed by its system as of June
30th the company will commit to build for the following calendar year on a
schedule designed to achieve the Phase 2 buildout percentage by December 31,
2012 in roughly equal annual increments.
      (3)   If the company achieves a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system after completion of Phase 2, the company
will make its cable service available to at least 40% of the residential
households existing in the franchise area by no later than December 31, 2015 so
long as the company is achieving a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system ("Phase 3"). Market penetration will be
measured as of June 30th of each year during Phase 3. If the company is
achieving a penetration of at least 40% of the households passed by its system
as of June 30th the company will commit to build for the following calendar
year on a schedule designed to achieve the Phase 3 buildout percentage by
December 31, 2015 in roughly equal annual increments.
      (4)   If the company achieves a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system after completion of Phase 3, the company
will make its cable service available to at least 60% of the residential
households existing in the franchise area by no later than December 31, 2018 so
long as the company is achieving a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system ("Phase 4"). Market penetration will be
measured as of June 30th of each year during Phase 4. If the company is
achieving a penetration of at least 40% of the households passed by its system
as of June 30th the company will commit to build for the following calendar
year on a schedule designed to achieve the Phase 4 buildout percentage by
December 31, 2018 in roughly equal annual increments.
      (5)   If the company achieves a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system after completion of Phase 4, the company
will make its cable service available to at least 80% of the residential
households existing in the franchise area by no later than December 31, 2020 so
long as the company is achieving a market penetration of at least 40% of the
households passed by its cable system ("Phase 5"). Market penetration will be
measured as of June 30th of each year during Phase 5. If the company is
achieving a penetration of at least 40% of the households passed by its system
as of June 30th the company will commit to build for the following calendar
year on a schedule designed to achieve the Phase 5 buildout percentage by
December 31, 2020 in roughly equal annual increments.
      (6)   On or before August 1 of each year of the franchise, the grantee
shall furnish the city with a report containing the number of homes passed as
of June 30, the market penetration as of June 30 and grantee's plans for
building during the upcoming year.
   (B)   Both parties acknowledge that the above-referenced benchmarks are
based in large part upon a static view of the video services market as of the
effective date of this chapter. Accordingly, the parties agree to re-open
discussions on this topic and adjust or eliminate these benchmarks in the event
of a material adverse change in market conditions. A material adverse change in
market conditions will be deemed to have occurred if the company can
demonstrate that its gross margin on cable services provided in the franchise
area has declined by 20% or more or market penetration has declined by 20% or
more.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.32 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The operator shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses
required by law, rule, regulation, or ordinance, and maintain the same, in full
force and effect, for as long as required.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.33 STANDBY POWER.
   The operator shall install automatic, activated standby power on its trunk-
cable and at its headends, hubs and receive-sites associated with the
distribution of cable service to and throughout the city to provide at least
two hours of standby power.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.34 EMERGENCY ALERT/EMERGENCY OVERRIDE.
   The operator shall comply with all Federal Emergency Alert requirements. The
operator will also design its system to allow local authorities to send out an
emergency broadcast.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.35 PUBLIC SERVICE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The franchisee shall, without charge for installation, maintenance or
service, make single installations at the locations listed on Appendix A and
located in the franchise area in which franchisee has, prior to the date of
installation, provided cable service. If said locations are already being
provided cable service by another cable operator, the franchisee shall offer
its services free of charge, but shall not be required to provide said services
if the location keeps the service from the other cable provider. Additionally,
the franchisee shall be required to provide cable service to the Florence City
Building.
   (B)   All such public service installations shall be made at such reasonable
locations as shall be requested by the respective units of government or
educational institutions and shall include one addressable converter, without
charge, per installation. Any charge for relocation of such installations
shall, however, be charged at usual and customary fees. Additional installation
at the same location shall be made at usual and customary fees.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.36 PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.
   The following shall be included as part of the operator's preventive
maintenance program:
   (A)   Periodic inspection, and repair if needed, of the headend;
   (B)   Periodic inspection, and repair if needed, of the antenna tower;
   (C)   Periodic weather-proofing and protection of the antenna lead
connectors, and on any other exposed fittings if needed;
   (D)   Periodic conducting of signal leakage tests that are in accord with
FCC requirements;
   (E)   Periodic servicing, testing, and calibration of equipment including
service vehicles, and field test equipment;
   (F)   Periodic testing of the operator's emergency alert system if any;
   (G)   Periodic testing and recording of said test data for all signals
(audio and video at the headend and system extremity points;
   (H)   Periodic testing as required by federal law and or regulations; and
   (I)   Compliance with all operating parameters required by FCC rules and
regulations, as such may be changed or amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.37 EXTENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The operator may construct, erect, install, maintain, operate, repair,
replace, remove, or restore a cable system within the geographical limits of
the city.
   (B)   The cable system may be located in, upon, along, across, over, and
under the streets, rights-of-way, easements, and public ways of the city and
county.
   (C)   The cable system may be located on city and county owned poles at no
charge.
   (D)   The operator, through a separate pole or utility easement agreement
with an affected utility, may locate the cable system on, or within, the
property of such utility company.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.38 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The term of this franchise shall be 15 years from the effective date
of this chapter. The rights and privileges granted by this chapter to the
operator are not exclusive and nothing herein is intended to or shall be
construed so as to prevent the city from granting other and similar rights,
privileges and franchises to any other person, firm, association or
corporation, provided, however, that such rights, privileges and franchises are
no more favorable than those granted to the operator herein.
   (B)   The city and franchisee acknowledge and agree that the field of cable
television is a rapidly changing one which may see many regulatory, technical,
financial, marketing and legal changes during the term of this franchise.
Therefore, in order to provide for the maximum degree of flexibility in the
franchise and to achieve a continued, advanced and modern cable television
system, the following evaluation provisions will apply:
      (1)   The city and franchisee mutually agree to participate in evaluation
sessions at any time and from time to time during the term of this franchise;
provided, however, there shall not be more than one evaluation session every
five years;
      (2)   Topics which may be discussed at any evaluation session include,
but are not limited to, channel capacity, system performance, programming, PEG
access, municipal or educational uses of the system, subscriber complaints,
judicial rulings and any other topics the city or franchisee may deem relevant;
      (3)   During an evaluation session, Franchisee and the city shall fully
cooperate with one another and shall provide without cost such information and
documents as are reasonably necessary to perform the evaluation;
      (4)   The city and franchisee, as the result of an evaluation session,
may determine that an amendment of the terms or conditions of the franchise may
be appropriate, that the requirements of the system or of the franchise should
be updated, changed or revised (collectively the "Proposed Modification"). If
the proposed modification is consistent with the terms of this franchise, the
needs of the city, the then existing state-of-the-art technology and
financially reasonable, franchisee and the city will, in good faith, review the
terms of the proposed modification and consider amending the franchise.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.39 PAYMENT OF MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAMMING SERVICES TAX.
   Payment to the state shall be made at the times and in conformance with the
requirements of KRS Chapter 136, as revised by House Bill 272 (Tax
Modernization) in the 2005 Regular Session of the Kentucky General Assembly. If
there is a change of state or federal law related to the imposition of a
franchise fee or other tax or fee, including without limitation property taxes
and occupation license fees, during the term covered by this chapter, the
company will comply with the law as changed or amended.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.40 RELIEF FROM THESE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Franchisee may file a written petition, at any time, with the
authority seeking relief from one or more provisions of this chapter. The
relief requested may specifically include the delay in implementation of one or
more provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   So that no provider of multichannel service (such as a wireless cable
operator, competing cable operator, phone company, video dial tone provider, or
direct broadcast satellite service) shall receive an unfair competitive
advantage, the operator shall be entitled to relief from competition as
follows. If a competing multi-channel service ("competitor") is available to
50% or greater of the city then:
      (1)   The operator shall have no greater channel capacity requirement
than competitor.
      (2)   The operator shall have no greater requirement to provide public,
educational, or government access than competitor.
      (3)   The operator shall have no greater responsibility to furnish
reports than competitor.
      (4)   The operator shall have no greater customer notification
requirements than competitor.
      (5)   The restrictions on the operator's billing practices shall be no
greater than the restrictions placed on competitor.
      (6)   The operator's customer service requirements shall be no greater
than competitor's.
      (7)   The operator shall have no greater responsibility to provide
institutional networks or data transmission facilities or interconnection than
competitor.
      (8)   The operator shall have no greater responsibility to pay a
franchise fee than competitor.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.41 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The operator's franchise may not be assigned or transferred in whole,
or in part, without the prior express written approval by the city.
   (B)   Any attempted assignment or transfer without such prior written
consent shall constitute a default of such franchise.
   (C)   In the event of such a default, the city shall proceed according to
the procedure set forth in this chapter, and any applicable state or federal
law.
   (D)   The operator shall petition in writing for the city's written consent
for a proposed assignment or transfer.
   (E)   The city will not unreasonably withhold its consent to such an
assignment or transfer. However, in making such a determination, the city may
consider the following provided, however, that the city will respond within the
time frame mandated by federal law:
      (1)   Experience of proposed assignee or transferee (including conducting
an investigation of proposed assignee or transferee's service record in other
communities);
      (2)   Qualifications of proposed assignee or transferee;
      (3)   Financial ability and stability of the proposed assignee or
transferee;
      (4)   The character of proposed assignee or transferee; and
      (5)   The corporate connection, if any, between the operator, and
proposed assignee or transferee.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no consent shall be required for the
operator to hypothecate or mortgage the operator's assets or in the case of
corporate reorganization where control of the corporation does not change.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.42 DEFAULT OF FRANCHISE; REVOCATION, TERMINATION OR CANCELLATION OF
FRANCHISE.
   (A)   When any event, act or omission (on the part of the operator) occurs
which represents a substantial violation of an integral provision of this
chapter, or materially compromises the corporate character, or legal, financial
or technical integrity and/or stability of the system or the operator to such a
degree that the interests of the subscribers are negatively affected, then such
event, act or omission may be considered a major breach of this chapter. Under
such circumstances, the city shall notify the operator in writing, of the
specific breach, and direct the operator to comply with all such provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Provided, however, where the operator satisfactorily corrects any of
the enumerated conditions, within 90 days from receipt of written notice, then
in no event shall the enumerated condition be weighted against the operator in
any subsequent review of franchise performance.
   (C)   Provided, however, that if the enumerated conditions cannot be
corrected within 90 days from written notice because of circumstances beyond
the operator's control, then the operator shall not be deemed in violation of
the franchise.
   (D)   Within 75 days, after such written notice is delivered to the
operator, the city shall conduct a public hearing on the matter.
   (E)   The city shall provide written notice to an operator, and any surety,
of the time and place of said public hearing.
   (F)   At the time of the hearing, the operator may present information on
the current status of the alleged breach of the franchise agreement. If the
situation has been resolved, or steps are being taken to resolve the situation,
then the operator may present the information at the hearing.
   (G)   If the affected operator fails to attend the hearing, and has not
requested a continuance of the hearing, then the operator shall be deemed to
have waived its right to a further continuation of the matter, and may be
declared in default of the franchise agreement.
   (H)   After the public hearing, the city may determine the operator to be in
compliance and dismiss the matter, or may determine that the operator has cured
any noncompliance and thereby dismiss the matter. However, the city may
determine that an ordinance violation exists and remains uncured. Consequently,
upon a finding that the operator substantially violated an integral ordinance
provision, or failed to cure a material outstanding ordinance violation, the
city shall direct the operator to take corrective action within a specified
period of time, and thereafter, if the operator has not taken such corrective
action, may revoke, terminate, or cancel the franchise, unless the operator
presents sufficient mitigating circumstances or the corrective action cannot be
reasonably taken in the time allotted.
   (I)   When the city directs corrective action to take place within a
specified time or declares the operator in default of the franchise agreement,
that declaration shall be reduced to writing, and the notice of corrective
action or default shall be delivered to such franchised operator, and any
surety, within 15 days of the city's action.
   (J)   If within 60 days after the specified time for corrective action has
expired, the operator, or surety does not take significant action to rectify
the breach, or submit a plan detailing how the operator will eliminate the
breach, then the city may revoke the operator's franchise, and shall notify the
affected operator, and surety forthwith, unless there are mitigating
circumstances.
   (K)   Notwithstanding the above, should the city notify the operator of its
intention to revoke, the operator shall have the right to sell its assets to an
independent third party. The city will not unreasonably withhold its consent to
such assignment and shall grant its consent pursuant to §
120.41. Upon assignment of this franchise, pursuant to this revocation section,
assignee shall receive a franchise in full force and effect, free of default,
for the term remaining on assignor's franchise. Provided, however, that such
sale shall not relieve the operator of any liability for its default.
   (L)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this franchise, it is the
intent of the city not to subject the operator to penalties, fines,
forfeitures, or revocation of the franchise in any of the following instances:
      (1)   In instances or for matters where a violation of the franchise by
the operator was unintentional and of de minimus effect on subscribers, the
public or the city;
      (2)   Where there existed circumstances reasonably beyond the control of
the operator that precipitated a violation of the franchise, or were deemed to
have prevented the operator from complying with any term or condition of the
franchise; or
      (3)   Where there is no pattern of violation or occurrence of repeated
violations of the same matter over time after notification by the city.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.43 CAPACITY OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The operator and city recognize that the need for channel capacity is
in part related to the community's demand for video and non-video programming.
Both the city and the operator also recognize that accurate prediction of this
demand is very difficult and that micro-management as regards to system
capacity of the franchise operations is not in the best interest of the city.
Accordingly, a requirement for excess unused capacity will unnecessarily
increase the cost of cable service while insufficient capacity will hinder the
long-term growth of the system. Within these parameters, however, the
operator's system shall have sufficient capacity to meet community needs
efficiently.
   (B)   Provided, however, that cost to the operator shall be taken into
account should circumstances at that time cause the operator to not be able to
justify expanding its system or programming services levels to the levels
herein.
   (C)   Thereafter, the operator shall expand the channel capacity of the
system, within a reasonable period of time, so that it can meet all future
cable related needs of the community for which the cable subscribers are
willing to pay. The desirability of additional channels shall be determined by
a joint survey conducted by the operator and the city of a representative
sample of the then existing cable subscribers. However, in no event shall the
operator be required to expand the channel capacity of the system in an amount
greater than the number of channels for which it can reasonably recover the
cost of adding the channel capacity over the remaining life of the franchise.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.44 DESCRIPTION OF CABLE TELEVISION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   Franchisee will provide service using a 1 GHz analog and digital RF system
over a fiber optic infrastructure. Such service will include over 200 channels
of digital content, as well as high-definition (HD) programming, digital video
recorder (DVR) and video-on-demand (VOD) services.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.45 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, GOVERNMENTAL, AND LEASED ACCESS.
   (A)   (1)   The operator shall make available channel capacity and the
necessary electronics to provide:
         (a)   At least one non-commercial channel for public access for
public, educational, and governmental use.
         (b)   At least one channel for local origination programming.
         (c)   Live broadcast of City Council meetings.
         (d)   Live feed on KY 18 near Boone County High School (for parade
broadcasts).
         (e)   Live feed at Champion Window Field baseball stadium.
      (2)   The above requirements do not require separate channels
specifically for the franchisor. The franchisee/operator shall have the right
to broadcast other programming on access channels when such channels are not
being utilized for access programming, however, in all events, access
programming shall have priority.
   (B)   Public access.
      (1)   Franchisee will make the public access channel available for use in
accordance with the Public Access Operating Rules during the period 11:00 a.m.
to 11:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
      (2)   Franchisee shall show a schedule of programs on the public access
channel when no programming is being shown.
   (C)   Government access. The city will produce its own governmental access
programming for live broadcast. All such programs will be repeated as scheduled
time permits.
   (D)   The operator will comply with federal regulations requiring the
provision of leased access channels.
   (E)   The operator will be permitted to provide non-access programming on
any of the above channels during any period such channel is not used for access
programming.
   (F)   Franchisee will develop rules and procedures for the use of the access
channels which will address scheduling, requirements and procedures, technical
specifications, use of equipment, and facilities, as well as the rights and
responsibilities of program producers and other access users.
   (G)   The operator will provide support for public access upon request of a
city resident, by arranging to provide portable camera equipment, editing
facilities and production space. Provision of this service may be through the
operator's own facilities or by leasing appropriate other facilities in order
to make production possible. Residents requesting equipment or editing
facilities must provide at least two business days advance notice and residents
requesting production space must provide at least five business days advance
notice to the operator.
   (H)   All access channels and the programming thereon made available by the
franchisee/operator under any franchise anywhere within the geographical
confines of Boone and Kenton Counties, shall be made available throughout the
entire geographical confines of Boone and Kenton Counties except where:
      (1)   The carriage of such channel's programming is prohibited by the
terms of a franchise; or
      (2)   The carriage of such channel's programming results in the
imposition of a charge upon the franchisee/operator or its customers provided
that in the event of such a charge, the franchisor shall have the option of
paying the charge and receiving the programming.
   (I)   The city and the operator may jointly seek interconnection with the
incumbent cable provider as appropriate. The city understands that the
operator's ability to fulfill certain requirements of this section may require
access to live video feeds and may depend on achieving interconnection with the
incumbent cable provider.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.46 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS: TAMPERING AND UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION OF
CERTAIN SERVICES.
   (A)   No person shall intercept or receive, or assist in intercepting or
receiving, any communications service offered over a cable system, unless
specifically authorized to do so by the operator, or as may otherwise be
specifically authorized by law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term "assist in intercepting or
receiving" shall include the manufacture or distribution of equipment intended
by the manufacturer or distributor, as the case may be, for the unauthorized
reception of service.
   (C)   Without securing permission from the operator, or making payment to
the operator, no person shall be authorized to make any connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
part of the cable system for the purpose of receiving or intercepting, or
assisting others to receive or intercept any cable service provided lawfully by
the operator.
   (D)   No person shall be authorized to willfully tamper with, remove, or
damage any cable, wires, equipment, or facilities used for the distribution of
cable services.
   (E)   Violation of division (A) of this section may be prosecuted under
federal, state and/or local law.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.47 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The operator shall comply in all respects with the Federal
Communications Commission regulations governing equal employment opportunity.
Furthermore, the company shall comply with all other applicable government
regulations whether federal, state, or local.
   (B)   Equal opportunity in employment shall be afforded to all qualified
persons, and no person shall be discriminated against because of race, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, sex, or age.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.48 NATURE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is a franchise to franchisee and may not be unilaterally
amended.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
§ 120.49 MOST FAVORED NATION CLAUSE.
   If at any time during the existence of this franchise, the operator modifies
or supplements an initial franchise agreement with another area or city in its
Northern Kentucky service area to provide for either more favorable terms, more
advanced technology of service, greater number of channels or services deemed
to be more favorable than those provided to the city hereunder, then said more
favorable term or condition shall be extended to the city within a reasonable
period of time upon request of the city. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the city
shall not be permitted to pick and choose discrete provisions from other
franchise agreements that the city may consider more favorable than discrete
provisions contained herein.
(Ord. O-19-08, passed 11-11-08)
CHAPTER 121: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
121.01   Purpose and applicability
   
121.02   Definitions
   
121.03   Short-term rental registration requirements and permits
   
121.04   Self-safety inspection required
   
121.05   Restrictions on short-term rentals
   
121.06   Information brochure
   
121.07   Safety features
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the registration
and use of short-term rentals, as defined herein, located in residential zoning
districts and the Main Street Overlay District.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms or phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   “ADVERTISE.” The written, audio, oral, or other methods of drawing the
public's attention, whether by brochure, written literature or online posting,
to a short-term rental in order to promote the availability of the short-term
rental.
   “LOCAL EMERGENCY CONTACT.” An individual other than the applicant who
resides within 20 miles of the subject property and who is designated by the
owner/applicant to act as the owner's authorized agent if the owner is outside
of the immediate area or is otherwise unavailable. The “LOCAL EMERGENCY
CONTACT” should be available on a 24-hour basis, have access to the short- term
rental property, and be authorized by the owner to act in the owner's absence
to address any complaints, disturbances, and emergencies.
   “OWNER.” Any person, agent, operator, firm, trust, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, or business organization having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county, or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor of the estate of such person if ordered to take
possession of real property by a court.
   “PERMIT.” The Short-Term Rental (STR) Permit which all persons must obtain
from the city and keep in force in order to operate short-term rentals.
   “RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.” Includes RS, R-1F, RPD, SR-1, SR-2, SR-3,
UR-1, UR-2 and UR-3 zoning districts.
   “SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR).” The rental of a residential dwelling unit, or a
portion thereof, for a period of less than 30 days. The term does not include:
      (1)   A unit that is used for a nonresidential purpose, including an
educational, health care, retail, restaurant, banquet space, or event center
purpose or another similar use;
      (2)   A bed and breakfast; or
      (3)   A hotel/residence hotel.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.03 SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS AND PERMITS.
   No person shall hereafter advertise, offer to rent or rent, lease, sublease,
license, or sublicense a residential property within the city as a short-term
rental until a registration has been properly made and a permit obtained from
the city. STR owners shall obtain and keep in force a Short-Term Rental Permit
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Applications for the permit shall be submitted to the city prior to
applying for a Conditional Use Permit through the Board of Adjustment and
Zoning Appeals. Applications for the permit will be considered in the order in
which they are received by the city. Failure to obtain a Conditional Use Permit
from the Board of Adjustment and Zoning Appeals within 90 days of the permit
application shall invalidate the application for the permit. Application forms
shall require, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, phone number, and e-mail address of the owner of the
short-term rental property;
      (2)   Verification that the applicant is the owner;
      (3)   Name, address, phone number, and e-mail address of the designated
local emergency contact;
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants permitted for the dwelling unit or
sleeping room in accordance with this chapter;
      (5)   A submission of a sketch floor plan of the dwelling with
dimensioned room layout;
      (6)   Self-Safety Inspection Form indicating all proper safety devices
are in place and in good working order;
      (7)   Site plan/survey of the property indicating maximum number of
vehicles that can be legally parked on the property without encroaching onto
street, sidewalks, alleys, other public rights-of-way or public property.
   (B)   Applicant shall obtain an occupational license from the city.
   (C)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance or other valid
proof of general liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the
permitted activity.
   (D)   Applicant shall comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of
the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments (adopted edition),
NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association, currently adopted edition),
and all other applicable state, federal, or local laws or regulations.
   (E)   The initially issued permit shall expire 365 calendar days after its
effective date, or upon a date on which the applicant no longer qualifies as an
STR operation as defined herein. The permit may be renewed for successive 365
calendar day periods so long as the applicant continues to qualify for issuance
of the permit. Applications for renewal periods shall be made to the Finance
Department on forms approved by the city. The fee for the initial permit
period, payable at the time of application, shall be $500. The fee for any
subsequent permit period, payable at the time of application, shall be $250.
   (F)   Upon receipt of an application for renewal of the registration, the
City Coordinator or other designee may deny the renewal if there is reasonable
cause to believe that:
      (1)   The owner has violated any ordinance of the city, or any state or
federal law on the premises or has permitted such a violation on the premises
by any other person;
      (2)   There are grounds for suspension, revocation, or other registration
sanction as provided in this chapter;
      (3)   The owner fails to apply for, be issued or appropriately renew an
occupational license.
   (G)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the City Coordinator upon a showing that the permit holder has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter. Revocation shall be by written notice which
describes the reasons for the revocation. The written notice of revocation
shall be delivered to the permit holder in person or by regular mail sent to
the address listed on the application. If a permit is revoked, and the
applicant desires to contest the revocation, a hearing before the Mayor may be
obtained by filing with the office of the City Clerk a written request for
hearing within 15 days of the issuance of the revocation notice. The hearing
before the Mayor shall be conducted within 30 days of filing of such request.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.04 SELF-SAFETY INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   As part of the application process, the owner is required to perform a
short-term rental fire safety inspection and provide a checklist for the
structure.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.05 RESTRICTIONS ON SHORT- TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   Use. In the residential zoning districts, all short-term rentals shall
be a conditional use under the Boone County Zoning Regulations. In the Main
Street Overlay District, short-term rentals shall be a principally permitted
use.
   (B)   External signage. There shall be no external on-site or off-site
advertising signs or displays indicating the property is a short-term rental.
   (C)   Non-dwelling units. Short-term rentals shall not be allowed on any
area not considered a primary dwelling, i.e. recreational vehicles, tents,
garages, boats, etc.
   (D)   Limit on occupants allowed. No more than two adult guests per bedroom,
plus no more than two additional adults shall be allowed when renting a
property as a short-term rental, except that:
      (1)   There shall be a maximum occupancy of ten persons, adult and
children;
      (2)   Bedrooms under 120 square feet shall be limited to only one adult
occupant.
   (E)   Limits on number of vehicles. A minimum of one parking space shall be
provided per guest room or suite. All parking for a short-term rental, shall be
provided off-street.
   (F)   Advertisement and contracts. Any advertisement of the property as a
short-term rental and all rental contracts must contain language that specifies
the allowed maximum number of occupants and maximum number of vehicles.
   (G)   Spacing requirements. The property on which the short- term rental is
to be located shall not be closer than 1,000 feet measured in a straight line
from the nearest property line to the nearest property line on another approved
short-term rental. This requirement does not apply in the Main Street Overlay
District, where no minimum spacing requirement is required.
   (H)   Other restrictions. It is unlawful:
      (1)   To operate or allow to be operated a short-term rental without
first obtaining a permit for the property in which the rental is to occur with
the city in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   To advertise or offer a short-term rental without first registering
the property in which the rental is to occur with the city in accordance with
this chapter; documented advertisement of the subject property as a short-term
rental, online or offline, shall be considered evidence of a violation of this
chapter;
      (3)   To operate a short-term rental that does not comply with all
applicable city and state laws and codes;
      (4)   To operate a short-term rental without paying the required hotel
occupancy taxes;
      (5)   To offer or allow the use of a short-term rental in a manner which
violates the City Noise Control Ordinance;
      (6)   To fail to include a written prohibition against the use of a
short-term rental for having a party in every advertisement, listing, or other
publication offering the premises for rent;
      (7)   To permit the use of the short-term rental for any illegal purpose
or any use not permitted by residential zoning regulations.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
Cross-reference:
   Noise control, see
Chapter 101
§ 121.06 INFORMATION BROCHURE.
   Each owner operating a short-term rental shall provide to guests information
that includes:
   (A)   The registrant's 24- hour contact information;
   (B)   A local responsible party's 24-hour contact information, if the
property owner is not within the city limits when guests are renting the
premises;
   (C)   Pertinent neighborhood information including, but not limited to,
parking restrictions, restrictions on noise and amplified sound, and trash
collection schedules;
   (D)   Information to assist guests in the case of emergencies posing threats
to personal safety or damage to property, including emergency and non-emergency
telephone numbers for police, fire, and emergency medical services providers
and instructions for obtaining severe weather, natural, or manmade disaster
alerts and updates;
   (E)   Policy regarding pets.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.07 SAFETY FEATURES.
   Each short-term rental property shall have working smoke detectors in
accordance with adopted codes, at least one working carbon monoxide detector
and alarm, and one working fire extinguisher. The premises shall otherwise
comply with applicable codes and ordinances including but not limited to
building and fire codes.
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Code Enforcement Board
following the procedures set forth in §§
33.70 et seq. All violations of such provisions are specifically assigned to
the Code Enforcement Board. Proceedings against any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter may be initiated by the issuance of a citation to
the Code Enforcement Board, and the Board may issue remedial orders, impose
civil fines, order the filing of liens, and exercise authority with respect to
such violations as set out in §§
33.70 et seq., pursuant to the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act (KRS
65.8801 through 65.8839).
(Ord. O-20-20, passed 12-15-20)
CHAPTER 122: MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
122.01   Rationale and findings
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Classifications
   
122.04   Required permits and licenses
   
122.05   Notification, notice, and suspension
   
122.06   Appeals and procedures for hearings before the City Administrator
   
122.07   Incorporation of 915 KAR Chapter 1
§ 122.01 RATIONALE AND FINDINGS.
   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate medical cannabis
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious secondary effects of medical cannabis businesses within
the city.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ADMINISTRATOR.” The Director of Administration/City Administrator or his or
her designee.
   “CITY.” The City of Florence, Kentucky.
   “CULTIVATOR.” An entity licensed under KRS 218B.080, KRS 218B.085, and KRS
218B.090 and is generally described as an entity that acquires, processes,
plants, cultivates, harvests, trims or stores cannabis.
      (1)   Cultivator, Tier I. Shall not exceed an indoor growth area of 2,500
square feet.
      (2)   Cultivator, Tier II. Shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
10,000 square feet.
      (3)   Cultivator, Tier III. Shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
25,000 square feet.
      (4)   Cultivator, Tier IV. Shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
50,000 square feet.
   “DISPENSARY.” An entity licensed under KRS 218B.080, KRS 218B.085, and KRS
218B.090 and is generally described as a retail establishment where cannabis
products are sold.
   “LICENSEE.” A person or medical cannabis entity that holds a current City of
Florence Business license.
   “MEDICAL CANNABIS ENTITY.” A duly licensed and/or applicant applying to
become a licensed medical cannabis cultivator, dispensary, processor, producer,
or safety compliance facility as authorized by KRS 218B.080, KRS 218B.085, KRS
218B.090 and 915 KAR Chapter 1, and/or these regulations.
   “PERSON.” Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
   “PROCESSOR.” An entity licensed under KRS 218B.080, KRS 218B.085, and KRS
218B.090 and is generally described as a combination of a cultivator and a
producer.
   “PRODUCER.” An entity licensed under KRS 218B.080, KRS 218B.085, and KRS
218B.090 and is generally described as an entity where the processing of raw
plant material is turned into final products.
   “SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY.” An entity licensed under KRS 218B.080, KRS
218B.085, and KRS 218B.090 and is generally described as a testing facility.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classifications for medical cannabis businesses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Cultivator, Tier I.
   (B)   Cultivator, Tier II.
   (C)   Cultivator, Tier III.
   (D)   Cultivator, Tier IV.
   (E)   Dispensary.
   (F)   Processor.
   (G)   Producer.
   (H)   Safety compliance facility.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.04 REQUIRED PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Zoning approval. No person or entity shall operate a medical cannabis
business in the city without first obtaining a Conditional Use Permit (C.U.P.)
from the Florence Board of Adjustment and Zoning Appeals or a concept
development plan application approval from the City Council.
   (B)   Business licenses. No person or medical cannabis entity shall operate
in the city unless the person or entity possesses a local operating license
pursuant to this chapter and a valid cannabis business license from the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (C)   City occupational license application. An applicant for a cannabis
business license shall file in person at the office of the City Administrator a
completed application made on a form provided by the City Administrator.
      (1)   Types of applications for cannabis business licenses. The city
shall accept the following types of applications for cannabis business
licenses:
         (a)   Initial application; and
         (b)   Renewal application.
      (2)   Applicant consent. By submitting an initial or renewal application
to the city, an applicant consents to any investigation of the applicant’s
ability to meet the requirements of KRS Chapter 218B, 915 KAR Chapter 1, and
the Boone County Zoning Regulations.
      (3)   Application acceptance and action. An application for an initial
license or renewal license shall not be considered to be complete and shall be
rejected by the city unless:
         (a)   Payment of the applicable fee shall be submitted with the
application; and all required information for each section of the application,
including attachments shall be submitted to the city and be acted upon within
30 days of the from the time the completed application is received.
         (b)   An application submitted under this administrative regulation
shall contain the following statement acknowledged by the applicant: “A false
statement made in this application is punishable under the applicable
provisions of KRS 523.100.”
      (4)   Initial license application fees. An applicant for an initial
cannabis business license shall pay the applicable application fee by credit
card or automated clearing house (ACH) transfer at the time of application
submission to the city. The initial application fee is nonrefundable. The
initial license application fees shall be:
         (a)   Tier I Cultivator: $1,500;
         (b)   Tier II Cultivator: $5,000;
         (c)   Tier III Cultivator: $10,000;
         (d)   Tier IV Cultivator: $15,000;
         (e)   Processor: $2,500;
         (f)   Producer: $2,500 plus the applicable cultivator tier application
fee;
         (g)   Dispensary: $2,500; and
         (h)   Safety compliance facility: $1,500.
      (5)   Initial applications for cannabis occupational licenses.
         (a)   An initial license is valid for one year from the date of
issuance shown on the city occupational license.
         (b)   An applicant shall complete the application form provided by the
City Administrator.
         (c)   An applicant shall submit an initial license application to the
city in the manner prescribed by the application instructions.
         (d)   An applicant shall apply for a separate license for each
location where it intends to operate a cannabis business.
         (e)   Any person requesting an initial license shall submit the
following in the initial license application:
            1.   The legal name of the person requesting a license and the
person’s business type, any trade or doing business as (OBA) name, mailing
address, federal tax identification number, web site (if any), email address,
and phone number of the proposed cannabis business. If a medical cannabis
entity’s business address is different from the physical location of the
proposed cannabis activity, both addresses and related contact information
shall be provided for each location. Where applicable, the person shall file a
certificate of good standing issued by the Kentucky Secretary of State dated no
more than ten days earlier than the date of the application being filed by the
applicant;
            2.   The type of cannabis business license requested;
            3.   If the proposed medical cannabis entity and/or person filing
for a cannabis license is a business entity, please provide a copy of that
entity’s articles of incorporation, articles of organization, partnership
agreement, and/or other organizational documents as the case may be;
            4.   Proposed location of cannabis business activities, including
the physical address of the proposed cannabis business as well as:
               a.   A copy of the deed to the real estate where the medical
cannabis entity proposes to conduct business. If the real estate where the
proposed medical cannabis entity intends to conduct business is not owned by
the medical cannabis entity, provide a copy of the lease evidencing the medical
cannabis entity has authority to use the proposed location as a medical
cannabis entity for a period equal to or greater than that term for which the
applicant seeks a license; and
               b.   A site plan and/or architectural floor plan describing the
interior and exterior detail for the proposed medical cannabis entity.
            5.   The name, address, date of birth, and curricula vitae or
resume of each principal officer and board member of the proposed cannabis
business as well as any additional information required by the city;
            6.    Disclosure of any individual or business entity with an
ownership interest of at least 10% equity or similar interest in the proposed
cannabis business and each identified individual or entity’s ownership
percentage.
            7.    Disclosure of any parent company or parent individual that
has an ownership interest in the proposed cannabis business and each identified
individual or entity's ownership percentage.
            8.   A document showing the ownership organizational structure of
the proposed cannabis business;
            9.   The name and address of any individual or entity providing
financial support to the proposed cannabis business that are not involved in
the day-to-day operations beyond providing financial resources.
            10.   The name and address of any physician or advanced practice
registered nurse that has an ownership or investment interest in or
compensation agreement with the proposed cannabis business.
            11.    Disclosure of whether any principal officer or board member
of the applicant has been convicted of a felony criminal offense, and if so, a
description of each felony offense;
            12.    Disclosure of any instances in which a business or not-for-
profit entity that any of the applicant’s board members managed or served on
the board of was convicted, fined, censured, or had a registration or license
suspended or revoked in any administrative or judicial proceeding;
            13.   If applicable, documentation that the applicant is capable of
successfully establishing and operating a cannabis business in the city,
including:
               a.    Demonstrated experience establishing and operating a for-
profit or nonprofit organization or other business within Kentucky or any other
jurisdiction, and the nature of the business conducted by the organization;
               b.   Any history relating to receipt of a similar license or
other authorization in other jurisdictions, including provisional licenses,
suspensions, revocations, or disciplinary actions to include civil monetary
fines or warnings; and
               c.   Any history of response to suspensions, revocations,
disciplinary actions, civil monetary fines, or warnings imposed relating to any
similar license or other authorization in another jurisdiction, and the plans
of correction or other responses made to those actions.
            14.   A description of the duties, responsibilities, and roles of
each principal officer, board member, employee, and any other individual or
entity with a financial interest in the proposed cannabis business who are not
involved in the day-to-day operations of the business;
            15.   A timeline showing the steps and estimated amount of time the
applicant shall take to begin cannabis business activities in the city;
            16.   A summary of the intended plan of operation that describes,
at a minimum, how the applicant’s proposed cannabis business operations shall
address:
               a.    Security;
               b.    Employee qualifications, supervision, and training;
               c.    Transportation of medicinal cannabis;
               d.    Storage and labeling of medicinal cannabis;
               e.    Inventory management;
               f.    Recordkeeping;
               g.    Preventing unlawful diversion of medicinal cannabis; and
               h.    Workforce development and job creation.
            17.   The name, mailing address, business title, phone number, and
email address of the primary contact for the application as well as the name,
address, and email address of any entity or individual who assisted the
applicant with preparing the application;
            18.    Documentation of any management service agreement in place
for the proposed cannabis business;
            19.   A notarized signature page signed by the applicant; and
            20.   An attestation that:
               a.   The site of the proposed cannabis business is not within
1,000 feet of an existing elementary or secondary school or a daycare center,
500 feet of a park or playground, 500 feet of a religious assembly facility,
500 feet of a sexually oriented business, or 1,000 feet of existing marijuana
dispensary if a new marijuana dispensary is proposed. For the purpose of this
administrative regulation, the separation/setback requirement shall be measured
in a straight line from the nearest property line of an existing elementary
school, secondary school, daycare center, park, playground, religious assembly
facility, sexually oriented business, or existing marijuana dispensary to the
nearest property line of the applicant’s proposed place of business;
               b.   The applicant can continuously maintain effective security,
surveillance, and accounting control measures to prevent diversion, abuse, and
other illegal conduct regarding medicinal cannabis;
               c.   The applicant has at all times during the application
process and has and will at all times during the licensure period comply with
all requirements of KRS 218B.010, et. seq., 915 KAR Chapter 1, Boone County
Zoning Regulations, and these regulations;
               d.   The applicant consents to the city verifying information
provided in the application with any relevant governmental agency or third
party;
               e.   If issued a license, the applicant shall conduct a criminal
background check into the criminal history of each person seeking to be a
principal officer, board member, agent, volunteer, or employee of the cannabis
business before that person begins work and shall not employ, take on as a
volunteer, or have as a board member, principal officer, or agent any person
who was convicted of a disqualifying felony offense or is younger than 21 years
of age;
               f.   The applicant consents to reasonable inspections,
examinations, searches, and seizures as contemplated by KRS Chapter 218B and
915
KAR Chapter 1. The applicant shall also consent to all reasonable inspections,
examinations, searches and seizures by city representatives, including but not
limited to, city police, fire, zoning and Code Enforcement Officers;
               g.   The applicant shall obtain and maintain workers’
compensation insurance for all employees in the Commonwealth and shall pay all
required employer contributions to the Kentucky Office of Unemployment
Insurance;
               h.   The applicant shall obtain and maintain commercial general
liability insurance for $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate
and commercial automobile insurance for any vehicle used to transport medicinal
cannabis or medicinal cannabis products;
               i.   The applicant shall complete all trainings required by the
Cabinet for the proposed cannabis business’s principals, agents, employees, and
volunteers;
               j.   The applicant shall establish any standard operating
procedures required by KRS Chapter 218B and 915 KAR Chapter 1 prior to the
first date of cannabis business activities in the Commonwealth, including those
specific to its cannabis business category. The standard operating procedures
that apply to cannabis businesses include:
                  i.    Security;
                  ii.    Recordkeeping;
                  iii .   Employee qualifications, supervision, and training;
                  iv.    Quality assurance;
                  v.    Adverse event reporting and recall;
                  vi.    Waste disposal and sanitation;
                  vii .   Transport-ation of medicinal cannabis;
                  vii i.   Inventory management, including storage and labeling
of medicinal cannabis;
                  ix.    Cash management and anti-fraud procedures; and
                  x.    Preventing unlawful diversion of medicinal cannabis.
               k.   For an applicant seeking a safety compliance facility
license, one or more of its prospective principal officers or board members
shall not be a principal officer or board member of a cultivator, processor,
producer, or dispensary applying to operate in the commonwealth;
               l.   For an applicant seeking a cultivator, processor, producer,
or dispensary license, one or more of its prospective principal officers or
board members shall not be a principal officer or board member of a safety
compliance facility applying to operate in the Commonwealth;
               m.   The applicant consents to sharing medicinal cannabis sales
data with law enforcement;
               n.   The applicant shall use the Commonwealth’s designated
electronic monitoring system and seed to sale tracking system required by KRS
218B.140 in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet;
               o.   The applicant has disclosed all individuals and entities
with an ownership interest of at least 10% equity or similar interest in the
proposed cannabis business as well as any parent companies and parent company
individuals with an ownership interest in its proposed cannabis business; and
               p.   The applicant swears and affirms that all information and
documentation provided with the initial license application is true and
correct.
            6.   License renewal fees. An applicant for renewal of a cannabis
business license shall pay the applicable annual renewal fee by credit card,
check, or ACH transfer at the time of application submission to the city. The
annual renewal fee is refundable if the renewal application is denied. The
annual renewal fees are:
               a.    Tier I Cultivator: $1,500.
               b.    Tier II Cultivator: $5,000.
               c.    Tier III Cultivator: $10,000.
               d.    Tier IV Cultivator: $15,000.
               e.    Processor: $2,500.
               f.    Producer: $2,500 plus the applicable cultivator tier
annual renewal fee;
               g.    Dispensary: $2,500 and
               h.    Safety compliance facility: $1,500.
            7.   Renewal applications for cannabis occupational licenses.
               a.   A renewal license is valid for one year from the date of
issuance shown on the city occupational license. The requirements that a
licensed cannabis business shall meet to receive an initial license are
continuing requirements to maintain the license. A cannabis business shall
continuously comply with the licensing requirements of KRS Chapter 218B and 915
KAR Chapter 1 during the initial licensure period and any subsequent renewal
period.
               b.   The city shall notify each licensee at least 90 calendar
days prior to the date the license expires to allow the licensee to begin the
renewal process if the licensee so chooses.
               c.   A medical cannabis entity shall complete the license
renewal application form provided by the City Administrator.
               d.   A license renewal application shall be submitted to the
city at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of their occupational
license. The city shall reject a license renewal application if it is not
submitted at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of the previously
city issued license and shall return the annual renewal fee to the licensee
along with written notice of the rejection.
               e.   A licensee shall submit a license renewal application to
the city in the manner prescribed by the application instructions.
               f.   A licensee shall include the following additional
information with a license renewal application:
                  i.    Information regarding any change in ownership, or any
initiated, pending, or concluded investigation or proceeding, during the period
of the initial license or prior renewal period, by any governmental or
administrative agency, including an investigation or proceeding involving
theft, loss, or possible diversion of medicinal cannabis by the licensee or
from the licensee’s facility;
                  ii.    Information regarding the licensee’s ability to
continue with licensed activities, including any staffing issues, delays,
medicinal cannabis shortages, medicinal cannabis product recalls, location
issues, and financial issues that occurred since the license was issued; and
                  iii .   The licensee’s history of compliance with KRS Chapter
218B and 915 KAR Chapter 1, including a summary of any noncompliance and
corrective action taken during the current and any previous licensing period or
a statement indicating that the licensee has not violated KRS Chapter 218B or
915 KAR Chapter 1 as of the date the renewal application is submitted.
               g.   The city shall acknowledge receipt of a renewal license
application within 15 calendar days of submission by the applicant. The city
shall review each application to determine whether the application is complete.
If the city determines an application is not complete, the city shall provide
written notice to the applicant of the identified deficiencies in the
application. The applicant shall have ten calendar days from the date of the
deficiency notification to cure the identified deficiencies and provide any
missing information or documentation to the city in the manner prescribed by
the city. If the applicant fails to cure any deficiency within ten calendar
days from the date of the deficiency notification, the city shall reject the
application as incomplete.
               h.   If the city determines that a license renewal application
is lacking sufficient information upon which to make a renewal determination,
the city shall notify the licensee in writing of the factors that require
additional information and documentation. The licensee shall have ten calendar
days from the date of the notice to provide the requested information and
documentation to the city. A licensee’s failure to provide the requested
information to the city by the deadline shall be grounds for denial of the
license renewal application.
               i.   The city may conduct an onsite inspection of the licensee’s
facilities and records to assist with determining continuing compliance with
KRS Chapter 218B and 915 KAR Chapter 1.
               j.   An existing cannabis business license is immediately
invalid upon expiration if the licensee has not filed a license renewal
application and paid the required renewal fee in accordance with this
administrative regulation. If a licensee properly submits a timely renewal
application with applicable renewal fee, the city may extend its existing
license from the date the existing license expires until the city can complete
its renewal application review and issue a determination.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.05 NOTIFICATION, NOTICE, AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   If, at any time, a medical cannabis entity is subject to any
enforcement action by any federal agency or the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the
medical cannabis entity must immediately notify the city and provide any
relevant information or documentation requested by the city.
   (B)   If, at any time, a medical cannabis entity or an employee thereof has
a reasonable belief that an actual loss, theft, or diversion of medical
marijuana or currency over $100 has occurred, the medical cannabis entity must
notify the Police Department, and such notification shall be provided no later
than 24 hours after the discovery of the loss, theft, or diversion.
   (C)   If at any time, any information in a medical cannabis entity’s local
business license changes, the medical cannabis entity must immediately notify
the city.
   (D)   If, at any time, the city becomes aware that a medical cannabis entity
possessing a local business license has engaged in, is engaged in, or is about
to engage in any act or practice declared to be prohibited by these regulations
or any other local, state, or federal law, with the exception of acts that are
permitted under state law but are federal violations stemming from the
classification of medical marijuana as a controlled substance under 21 U.S.C
§812(c) the City Administrator may do any of the following:
      (1)   Refer such violations to the Commonwealth of Kentucky and/or the
appropriate law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Issue a warning to the medical cannabis entity, which may include
possible corrective action(s);
      (3)   Suspend the license and require any violations to be resolved and
corrective actions to be taken as conditions to the reinstatement of the
suspended license; or
      (4)   Revoke the license.
   (E)   A warning, suspension, or revocation issued by the city under this
section shall be served upon the medical cannabis entity at the address for
which their business license was granted, by professional service, by certified
mail, or by a posting in a conspicuous location at the address of the medical
cannabis entity on record with the city.
   (F)   Notice by certified mail shall be effective upon delivery. In the
event that notice by certified mail is retuned unclaimed or refused, mailing of
the notice by regular mail shall be deemed effective upon mailing. Notice by
personal service or by posting at the primary entrance to the facility of the
medical cannabis entity business location shall be deemed effective at the time
of personal service or posting, respectively.
   (G)   A medical cannabis entity must immediately cease operations upon
suspension, revocation, or expiration of a local business license, unless
otherwise instructed by the city, until the suspension is lifted or a new,
valid license is obtained.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.06 APPEALS AND PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS BEFORE THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appeals and hearings before the City Administrator shall be conducted
as follows:
      (1)   License denial. An applicant desiring to contest the denial of
issuance of a license may appeal to the City Council.
      (2)   Revocation or suspension of licenses. The city may on its own
initiative or on the complaint of any person, institute administrative
proceedings before the City Council to revoke or suspend any License per KRS
218B.090(a)(b). A license may be revoked or suspended after the licensee has
been afforded the opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with the
procedure outlined below.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Complaints seeking suspension or revocation of a license on the
initiative of the city may be filed with the City Administrator by the Mayor or
any person designated as a Code Enforcement Officer by Ordinance No. O-10-16,
any city police officer, or member of the city’s Fire Department. The complaint
shall contain: A statement of the factual basis for the revocation or
suspension along with a statement of issues involved, in sufficient detail to
give the licensee reasonable opportunity to respond to the revocation, prepare
for a hearing, and to present evidence in support of the licensee’s position.
      (2)   Complaints received from persons other than city officials shall be
in writing, under oath, and shall in plain language describe the factual basis
for the action sought.
      (3)   The City Administrator may issue an emergency order summarily
suspending a license upon finding that the continued operation of the medical
cannabis entity pending a hearing would constitute a threat to the public
health, safety, or welfare.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. Upon receipt of a complaint, the City Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Conduct the hearing before City Council as soon as practicable and
shall give notice of the hearing to the medical cannabis entity not less than
ten days in advance of the date set for the hearing. In no event shall a
hearing on a license suspension or revocation occur greater than 30 days
following the filing of a complaint with the City Administrator. Provided,
however, the medical cannabis entity against whom a complaint has been filed
may consent in writing to an extension of the hearing date;
      (2)   The notice required shall be served on the medical cannabis entity
by first class mail, sent to the medical cannabis entity’s address on record
with the city; by personal service upon the medical cannabis entity’s
designated representative on record with the city or by conspicuously posting
on an entry door to the business location of the medical cannabis entity on
record with the city;
      (3)   The notice shall be in plain language and shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the date, time, place and nature of the hearing;
         (b)   The name and mailing address of the City Administrator;
         (c)   A reference to the specific statutes and administrative
regulations which relate to the issues involved.
         (d)   A statement advising the medical cannabis entity of the right to
legal counsel;
         (e)   A statement of the medical cannabis entity’s right to examine,
at least five days prior to the hearing, a list of witnesses the city expects
to call at the hearing, any evidence to be presented at the hearing by the city
and any exculpatory information in the city’s possession; and
         (f)   A statement advising that a medical cannabis entity who fails to
attend or participate as required at any stage of the administrative hearing
process may be held in default under this chapter.
         (g)   A statement that the hearing may result in suspension or
revocation of the medical cannabis entity’s license.
   (D)   Conduct of hearing.
      (1)   The City Administrator and/or Mayor shall preside over the hearing
before the City Council and shall regulate the course of the proceedings in a
manner which will promote the orderly and prompt conduct of the hearing.
      (2)   The City Administrator and/or Mayor, at appropriate stages of the
proceedings, shall give all parties full opportunity to file pleadings, motions
and objections.
      (3)   The City Administrator and/or Mayor may issue subpoenas and
discovery orders when requested by a party or on his or her own initiative.
When a subpoena is disobeyed, any party may apply to the Boone Circuit Court
for an order requiring obedience to the subpoena. Failure to comply with an
order of the court shall be cause for punishment as a contempt of the court.
      (4)   To the extent necessary for the full disclosure of all relevant
facts and issues, the City Administrator and/or Mayor shall afford all parties
the opportunity to respond, present evidence and argument, conduct cross-
examination, and submit rebuttal evidence.
      (5)   Any party to the hearing may participate in person or be
represented by counsel.
      (6)   The hearing shall be open to the public unless specifically closed
pursuant to a provision of law.
   (E)   Findings; evidence; recording of hearing; burdens of proof.
      (1)   Findings by the City Administrator and/or City Council shall be
based exclusively on the evidence in the record. The City Administrator and/or
City Council shall exclude evidence that is irrelevant, immaterial, unduly
repetitious, or excludable on constitutional or statutory grounds or on the
basis of evidentiary privilege recognized in the Courts of this Commonwealth.
Hearsay evidence may be admissible, if it is the type of evidence that
reasonable and prudent persons would rely on in their daily affairs, but it
shall not be sufficient in itself to support Findings unless it would be
admissible over objections in a civil court of law.
      (2)   All testimony shall be made under oath or affirmation. Any part of
the evidence may be received in written form if doing so will expedite the
hearing without substantial prejudice to the interests of any party.
      (3)   Objections to evidentiary offers may be made by any party and shall
be noted in the record.
      (4)   The city shall cause all testimony, motions, and objections in a
hearing to be accurately and completely recorded. Any person, upon request, may
receive a copy of the recording or a copy of the transcript, if the hearing has
been transcribed, at the discretion of the city, unless the hearing is closed
by law. The city may prepare a transcript of a hearing or a portion of a
hearing upon request but the party making the request shall be responsible for
the transcription costs. The form of all requests and fees charged shall be
consistent with KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
      (5)   Not later than seven business days following the conclusion of the
hearing, the City Administrator and/or City Council shall issue a decision or
order which shall set out the final disposition of the charges together with
findings and conclusions which form the basis of that action.
   (F)   A licensee desiring to contest a decision of the City Administrator or
City Council dealing with revocation or suspension of a license may appeal to
the Boone District Court.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 122.07 INCORPORATION OF 915 KAR CHAPTER 1.
   As of the adoption of these Regulations by the city, the Commonwealth of
Kentucky is in the process of adopting and promulgating Administrative
Regulations thereby establishing procedures for the issuance, renewal,
suspension, and revocation of cannabis business licenses pursuant to KRS
218B.140. Those Administrative Regulations are currently found in 915 KAR
Chapter 1. As of the adoption of these Regulations, the Cabinet for Health and
Family Services (“Cabinet”) has adopted various regulations which are proposed,
emergency, temporary, or current. The city would incorporate herein those
provisions set forth in 915 KAR 1: 001 through 915 KAR 1: 070, as amended. Any
person seeking a license as provided for in this Chapter 122 shall also comply
with those provisions set forth in 915 KAR Chapter 1 as amended.
(Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-19-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         Chapter
            
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
            
132.   RESERVED
            
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   (Reserved)
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
§ 130.01 (RESERVED)
   This section and all remaining sections of this chapter (§§
130.01 - 130.98) are reserved pending future legislation.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or violation
for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided, shall be
imprisoned for a definite term, or fined, or both, which term of imprisonment
and amount of fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in this section.
   (B)   Terms of imprisonment for misdemeanors shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, not more than 12 months;
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, not more than 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
   (C)   Fines for misdemeanors and violations shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, not more than $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, not more than $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, not more than $250.
      (4)   This division does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
131.01   Discharging air rifles
   
131.02   Discharging firearms
§ 131.01 DISCHARGING AIR RIFLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any air
rifle, BB gun, or pellet gun within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $10 or more than $500, and the weapon employed in the violation
shall be confiscated.
(Ord. O-23-73, passed 5-22-73)
§ 131.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "FIREARM." Any weapon which will expel a projectile by the action of an
explosive. The term includes but is not limited to rifles, shotguns, pistols,
machine guns, or similar arms.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, shoot, or
cause to be discharged, fired, or shot any firearm within the city limits. The
provisions hereof shall not apply to any policeman, conservation officer, peace
officer, or other similarly duly-authorized officer acting within the scope of
his legal authority. The provisions of this section shall not apply or be
construed to prohibit the use of firearms in "ballistically secure indoor
target ranges" constructed pursuant to the zoning use created in Ordinance O-
11-86.
   (C)   It shall be a complete defense to any charge hereunder that any person
in discharging a firearm was engaged in a bona fide act of self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of his home or property in such a manner that
the act would not constitute a criminal offense under the statutes or common
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than
one year, or both.
(Ord. O-26-80, passed 9-9-80; Am. Ord. O-12-86, passed 5-27-86)
CHAPTER 132: RESERVED
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Nude performances prohibited
   
133.02   Encouraging another to engage in sodomy
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 NUDE PERFORMANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "OBSCENE." Conduct, the dominant theme of which, taken as a whole, appeals
to a prurient interest in sex, which is patently offensive because it affronts
contemporary community standards relating to the description or representation
of sexual matters, and which is without redeeming social value.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, the term "Public Place" shall have the
same definition as the term "public place" is defined in KRS 525.010.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to appear in any public place in
such a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area,
anus, vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof, or for any female to appear
in such manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the female
breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other
wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
      (3)   However, this division shall not be construed as prohibiting nudity
in any public places set aside for such conduct including, but not limited to
public restrooms, bathing and locker room facilities, and those places in which
nudity or exposure is necessarily expected outside the home.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any scene, sketch,
act, or performance in any public place where alcoholic beverages are sold,
containing obscene postures, suggestions, acts, or simulations in an obscene
manner.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or operates a public
place where alcoholic beverages are sold to solicit, employ, or permit any
person to engage in any of the conduct prohibited in this section in the public
place, or to display or permit to be displayed in the public place any pictures
or films depicting acts, the live performance of which is prohibited by this
section.
(Ord. O-41-80, passed 12-9-80; Am. Ord. O-3-94, passed 5-24-94)
Penalty, see § 133.99
§ 133.02 ENCOURAGING ANOTHER TO ENGAGE IN SODOMY.
   It shall be a criminal offense for a person to solicit, invite, influence,
or encourage another person by speech, gesture, or any other form of
communication, to engage in or attempt to engage in conduct which would
constitute a violation of the provisions of KRS 510.100 (Sodomy in the Fourth
Degree) in the city with the intent to promote or facilitate such conduct.
(Ord. O-33-85, passed 9-10-85)
Penalty, see § 133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), the offense of violating the terms of §
133.01 is designated as a misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed for the
offense. (Ord. O-41-80, passed 12-9-80; Am. Ord. O-3-94, passed 5-24-94)
   (B)   Any person convicted of the offense established in § 133.02 shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than
one year, or both. (Ord. O-33-85, passed 9-10-85)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         Chapter
            
150.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
            
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
            
152.   STANDARDS OF SAFETY
            
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
            
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
            
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
            
156.   ELECTRICAL CODE
            
157.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
150.01   Adoption
   
150.02   Statement of policies and objectives
§ 150.01 ADOPTION.
   The Comprehensive Plan of Boone County, Kentucky, as prepared, adopted, and
recommended by the Boone County Planning Commission, is adopted for purposes of
complying with and conforming to KRS 100 and other applicable law.
(Ord. 0-19-86, passed 7-8-86; Ord. 0-33-86, passed 11-25-86; Ord. 0-17-89,
passed 5-30-89, Ord. 0-31-89, passed 10- 24-89; Am. Ord. O-28-04, passed 10-26-
04; Am. Ord. O-14-2024, passed 7-30-24)
§ 150.02 STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The statement of policies and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of Boone
County, Kentucky, as prepared, adopted, and recommended by the Boone County
Planning Commission, is adopted by reference, and made a part hereof as if
fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 0-35-85, passed 10-8-85; Am. Ord. O-06-00,passed 4-11-00; Am. Ord. O-28-
04, passed 10-26- 04; Am. Ord. O-14-2024, passed 7-30-24)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   State Standards of Safety; National Building Code adopted
   
151.02   Sewer or water line
   
151.03   Permit to construct sewer or water line
   
151.04   Construction requirements for sewer or water line
   
151.05   Approval of water and sewer commission required
   
151.06   Enforcement of chapter
   
151.07   Inspection of residence building construction
   
151.08   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.09   City building inspector
   
151.10   Building permit required
   
151.11   Building permit fees
   
151.12   Violations
   
151.13   Streets and concrete structures
   
151.14   Kentucky Uniform State Building Code adopted
   
151.15   Enforcement of the Uniform State Building Code
Modular Homes
   
151.20   Definitions
   
151.21   Standards
   
151.22   Inspection
   
151.23   Spot checks
   
151.24   Relief from requirements
Board of Building and Housing Appeals
   
151.30   Appointment
   
151.31   Term
   
151.32   Quorum
   
151.33   Records
   
151.34   Meetings
   
151.35   Time limit for appeal
   
151.36   Variations and modifications
   
151.37   Decisions
   
151.38   Effect on pending litigation
   
151.39   Conflict with other ordinances
Barbed Wire Fencing
   
151.50   Residential property
   
151.51   Commercial, industrial, agricultural or public property
   
151.52   Grace period for removal of prohibited or nonconforming barbed wire
fencing
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 STATE STANDARDS OF SAFETY; NATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety Fire Prevention Code as revised
and updated effective September 11, 1990, by the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction and the Office of the State Fire Marshall, together
with the standards and codes incorporated therein, shall be and the same is
hereby approved and adopted by the city and shall be applicable to the
construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of buildings or structures
within the city.
      (2)   All subsequent amendments or revisions to the Kentucky Standards of
Safety Fire Prevention Code adopted in this division (A)   and the codes and
standards incorporated therein which are approved by the Kentucky Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction and the Office of the Kentucky State Fire
Marshall, or their successors in office, shall be as the date of such approval,
automatically adopted and applicable and enforceable in the city.
   (B)   The National Building Code adopted in division (A) is amended to
provide that in instances where wood frame construction is used in the
construction, reconstruction, and repair of buildings or structures within the
city, all load-bearing partitions and nonload-bearing partitions which are a
part of the construction, reconstruction, or repair shall conform to the
following standards of construction:
      (1)   Studs in one- and two-story buildings shall be not less than 2 by 4
inches with the wide face perpendicular to the partitions. In three-story
buildings, studs in the first story shall be not less than 3 by 4 inches or 2
by 6 inches.
      (2)   Studs supporting floors shall be spaced not more than 16 inches,
and those supporting ceilings and roofs shall be spaced not more than 16
inches.
      (3)   Double studs (or cripples) shall be provided on each side of
openings exceeding six feet in width.
      (4)   Headers shall be provided over each opening in all partitions. Each
header shall be supported by single studs (or cripples) on each side of the
opening.
      (5)   Studs shall be capped with double top plates installed to provide
overlapping at corners on exterior walls. End plates in double top plates shall
be lapped at least 48 inches. The interior wall may be capped with a single
plate if it is not a load bearing wall.
      (6)   All ceiling systems shall be at least two inches by six inches,
spaced no more than 16 inches apart. Any conventional cut roof shall be at
least two inches by six inches, spaced no more than 16 inches apart.
   (C)   The provisions of §
151.01(B) shall apply to the construction, reconstruction, or repair of all
structures to which the Kentucky State Uniform Building Code does not apply. In
any case where a provision of §
151.01 (B) is found to be in conflict with any applicable existing code,
ordinance, or regulation of the city or of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the
provision which establishes the higher and more restrictive standard shall
prevail.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63; Am. Ord. O-26-77, passed 8-23-77; Am. Ord. O-
15-78, passed 4-25-78; Am. Ord. O-8-80, passed 4-8-80; Am. Ord. O-18-91, passed
9-10-91)
Cross-reference:
   
Standards of Safety, see Chapter 152
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate buildings and structures, see KRS 85.190
   Fire prevention and protection, see KRS 227.200 through 227.410
§ 151.02 SEWER OR WATER LINE.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter construct, build, or
cause to be constructed or built any sewer line or water line intended for
dedication to the public use or intended to be connected to and become a part
of either the city water distribution system or the city sanitary sewer system,
without having applied for and obtained a permit from the city Water and Sewer
Commission.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or cause to be
constructed any sewer line intended to be connected from a structure to the
city sanitary sewer system unless the minimum difference in elevation between
the top of the sanitary sewer outfall line of the city shall be 16 inches above
the top of the invert of the sanitary sewer line at the foundation of the
structure.
   (C)   The city shall have no responsibility for any blockage on backups
occurring in any sewer line which fails to conform to the requirements set out
in division (B).
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63; Am. Ord. O-27-72, passed 6-27-72)
§ 151.03 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT SEWER OR WATER LINE.
   No permit for the construction of any sewer or water line shall be issued by
the Water and Sewer Commission until the following action by the party seeking
the permit is taken.
   (A)   A written application on forms to be provided by the Water and Sewer
Commission and signed by the person, firm, or corporation seeking the permit
shall be submitted to the Water and Sewer Commission.
   (B)   This application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A subdivision plat of the subdivision in which the water or sewer
line is to be constructed, the plats showing thereon the signed approval of the
City Planning Commission.
      (2)   A set of plans of the proposed sewer lines, showing plan and
profile of the proposed sewer line and location of all manholes, lampholes,
connections to existing sewer lines, and easements for rights-of-way, where
required.
      (3)   A set of plans of the water lines showing plan and profile of the
proposed water line and location of all valves, fireplugs, fittings, and
easements for rights-of-way, where required.
      (4)   Designed computations showing performance of the proposed water and
sewer lines with current regulations of the Water and Sewer Commission.
      (5)   A written certificate signed by an engineer licensed to practice in
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, stating that the design of the water and sewer
lines meets or exceeds the requirements of the current regulations of the Water
and Sewer Commission.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.04 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER OR WATER LINE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or cause to be constructed
any water line or sewer line intended for dedication to public use or intended
to be connected to the city water distribution system or to the city sanitary
sewer system, unless the water or sewer line was constructed in strict
compliance with all laws, rules, and regulations of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, the city, or the Water and Sewer Commission.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.05 APPROVAL OF WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall connect or cause to be connected
any water or sewer line to the city water distribution system or the city
sanitary sewer system without having obtained the written approval and
acceptance of the Water and Sewer Commission.
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Commission shall not grant written approval or
permission until they have received a written certification from the City
Inspector that he has inspected the line, while under construction, and that
the line has been both flow and smoke tested satisfactorily.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.06 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The City Inspector and all other officers, agents, and employees of
the city are charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the City Inspector is absent or unable to perform his
duties hereunder, the duly appointed City Engineer shall perform these duties
until the City Inspector is able to resume his duties.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.07 INSPECTION OF RESIDENCE BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In order to insure the proper enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, there shall be performed by the City Inspector, or other duly
authorized official of the city, a minimum of three inspections of all
residence buildings being constructed or reconstructed in the city. These
inspections shall be at the following intervals:
      (1)   When footings are in place and before the foundation is poured, in
order to assure the proper yard and area requirements; and
      (2)   When the roof and floor joists are in place with the joist bearings
exposed; and
      (3)   When completed.
   (B)   All business and industrial buildings shall have, in addition to the
three inspections required above, one additional inspection for every $15,000
of cost by which the total of the building or structure exceeds $35,000. This
additional inspection shall be at such intervals as the City Inspector may deem
best, considering the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   For the purpose of making surveys, inspections, and investigations,
the City Inspector is authorized, upon identification and statement of purpose,
to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or
at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or occupant,
all buildings, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and general premises.
The owner or occupant of every building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit,
and general premises, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the City
Inspector free access to the building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit,
or general premises for the purpose of the inspection, survey, or
investigation.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.08 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, by sale or other means, any
dwelling or commercial building to be occupied without first obtaining a
certificate of occupancy and the inspection required for such certificate.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63; Am. Ord. O-42-77, passed 10-25-77)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.09 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is established the office of City Building Inspector. The office
shall be filled by appointment of the City Council. The person appointed shall
hold office at the pleasure of the City Council. The compensation for the
office shall be fixed and established by the City Council from year to year as
conditions warrant and shall be paid to the person holding the office in
monthly payments.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed to the office of the City Building
Inspector who has any conflicting interest to the city and unless he shall have
the following qualifications:
      (1)   He shall have attained the age of 21, be in good health, and be a
graduate of a recognized high school.
      (2)   He shall be able to and shall devote full time to this office.
      (3)   He shall have at least five years experience in the building trade
or shall have a background of experience or education in similar or related
endeavors, which in the opinion of the City Council would be sufficient in lieu
of five years experience in the building trade.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63; Am. Ord. O-332-67, passed 11-28-67)
§ 151.10 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, reconstruct, or
remodel any structure or commence to do any of these things without having
obtained a building permit from the city. The permit shall be issued upon the
receipt of a written application therefor which shall be submitted to the City
Clerk and shall contain all the information required by the current zoning
ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the City Clerk shall submit the
application, together with all drawings and specifications accompanying the
application, to the City Inspector for his review. If these are found by the
City Inspector to comply with this chapter and all other applicable rules and
regulations, he shall certify his approval in writing to the City Clerk, who in
turn shall issue the building permit upon payment of the fees for the permit as
hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   All fees received from the issuance of building permits shall be
deposited in the general fund of the city and shall be used for general
purposes of the city.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.11 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees to be collected by the City Clerk for the issuance of any
building permit shall be based upon the cost of the building or structure,
which is to be accurately estimated and submitted by the owner or builder to
the City Clerk with the application for the building permit. The term "COST OF
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE" shall include the cost of grading, landscaping, garages,
and driveways.
   (B)   A schedule of fees for issuance of building permits, demolition
permits and permits for above ground swimming pools is established and adopted
as follows:
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Construction Costs Fee
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Construction Costs                  Fee
Up to and including $999.99         $ 20
$1,000.00 through $4,999.99         30
$5,000.00 through $9,999.99         40
$10,000.00 through 14,999.99        60
$15,000.00 through $29,999.99       85
$30,000.00 through $49,999.99       150
$50,000.00 through $74,999.99       200
$75,000.00 through $99,999.99       250
$100,000.00 through $149,999.99     300
$150,000.00 through $199,999.99     400
$200,000.00 through $249,999.99     500
$250,000.00 through $349,999.99     600
$350,000.00 through $499,999.99     800
$500,000.00 through $749,999.99     1,000
$750,000.00 through $999,999.99     1,500
$1,000,000.00 through $1,999,999.99 2,500
$2,000,000.00 through $2,999,999.99 3,500
                                    3,500
$3,000,000.00 and up                plus l,000 for each additional million
                                    dollars
                                    cost of construction.
DEMOLITION PERMIT FEES
Demolition permit                   $25
SWIMMING POOL PERMIT FEES
Above ground                        $10
   RESIDENTIAL NEW CONSTRUCTION
   Fees must be calculated on estimated costs of construction based on not less
than the square footage costs listed below. These costs are based on data
supplied by B.O.C.A., F.W. Dodge, and the Home Builders Business Association of
Northern Kentucky.
 
Construction     Fee Per Square Foot Gross
Living Space     $ 30
Basements        8
Attached garages 10
Detached garages 15
   (C)   Checks are to be made payable to: City of Florence.
   (D)   The office of Building Inspector shall collect the fees established
and adopted herein and deliver such fees collected to the office of the City
Clerk for a deposit in the appropriate funds or accounts of the city.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63; Am. Ord. O-42-73, passed 11-27-73; Am. Ord. O-
33-78, passed 10-10-78; Am. Ord. O-16-79, passed 6-12-79; Am. Ord. O-21-82,
passed 6-22-82; Am. Ord. O-32-86, passed 11-25-86)
§ 151.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If, during construction, reconstruction, or repair of any building or
structure, the City Inspector discovers any violation of any applicable laws of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky or the city, he shall thereupon make a report in
writing to the contractor or his agent on the job, with a copy thereof to
become a part of the City Inspector's records.
   (B)   If the violations have not been corrected or remedied, within a
reasonable time after written notification to the contractor or agent, by the
City Inspector, the City Inspector shall immediately, in writing, order the
contractor, or his duly authorized agent, to cease all work on the building or
structure in question immediately.
   (C)   Thereupon the contractor and all persons acting by and for him shall
cease all work on this project immediately.
   (D)   If the contractor, or persons acting for him, shall fail or refuse to
cease all work on this project, after having been ordered in writing to do so
by the City Inspector, it shall be the duty of the City Inspector to
immediately obtain, from the judge of the appropriate court, a warrant for the
person or persons and to deliver the warrant to the Police Department for
service by them upon the person or persons.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.13 STREETS AND CONCRETE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Inspector to inspect all streets and
other structures containing concrete as an element of their construction, being
constructed or reconstructed by persons, firms, or corporations, other than the
city, to see that they are constructed in accordance with all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations.
   (B)   All persons, firms, and corporations constructing such streets or
structures shall, at their expense, comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Each day that a major placement or pouring of concrete is made,
three test cylinders of the concrete shall be made for inspection by the City
Inspector.
      (2)   Each cylinder shall then be sent to a reputable testing laboratory
approved by the City Inspector or City Council designated person and shall be
broken at the laboratory. A copy of the laboratory report, signed by an
official of the laboratory showing the results of the test, shall be mailed to
the City Inspector.
      (3)   These reports shall show that the cylinders for each major
placement or pouring were broken, one at seven days after making, one at 14
days after making, and one at 28 days after making. The report must show an
average strength of all 28 days breakings at least 10% greater than the
strength specified in the minimum specifications for streets as set up by
ordinance for streets of the city.
      (4)   In the event these test results fall below the above stated minimum
strength, the City Inspector shall report this fact in writing to the Public
Works Committee of City Council, who, in turn, shall report the fact to the
City Council, together with its recommendation on whether the street should be
accepted by the city for maintenance, and in this event the city may refuse to
accept the street or the portion thereof affected.
(Ord. O-206-64, passed 12-8-64)
§ 151.14 KENTUCKY UNIFORM STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Kentucky Uniform State Building Code as promulgated by the
Kentucky Board of Housing, Buildings, and Construction pursuant to KRS Chapter
l98B is adopted as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   The Kentucky Uniform State Building Code is extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
   (C)   The City Building Inspector is designated the local enforcement agent
for the building code.
(Ord. O-38-81, passed 8-25-81)
§ 151.15 ENFORCEMENT OF THE UNIFORM STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   That the Agreement for Cooperative Enforcement of the Uniform State
Building Code, between the County of Boone, Kentucky, and the city, is hereby
approved. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute the agreement
on behalf of the city and the appropriate officials of the city are hereby
authorized and directed to take the other actions as are necessary to implement
and perform the agreement on behalf of the city.
   (B)   In order to provide uniform building code enforcement, a uniform
schedule of fees for permits, and uniform penalties for violators throughout
the unincorporated territory of the county and the corporate limits of the
city, the city hereby adopts and enacts County of Boone Ordinance No. 930.8.
All of the provisions of the ordinance shall be in full force and effect within
the corporate limits of the city. With respect to fees for electrical
inspections the city hereby ratifies and adopts the policy of the county which
is to have the amount charged for the inspections calculated in accordance with
K.R.S. 227.487.
(Ord. O-17-92, passed 6-9-92)
MODULAR HOMES
§ 151.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
151.20 -
151.24 the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning. "MODULAR HOME." A residence building
which is preconstructed or prepackaged into modules or components at a plant or
manufacturing site and shipped to the site where it will be permanently
attached to a foundation. This definition specifically excludes dwellings which
are designed to be moved periodically from place to place.
(Ord. O-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
§ 151.21 STANDARDS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, build, or cause to be
constructed or built any modular home which does not comply with the standards
of the latest edition of the National Board of Fire Underwriters National
Building Code, KRS 227.200 through 227.410; all provisions of all lawful
orders, rules, or regulations made under the provisions of KRS 227.200 through
227.410; and the latest edition of the Standards of Safety as made and adopted
by the Commissioner of Public Safety for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. O-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.22 INSPECTION.
   There may be substituted for inspection no. two, set out in §
151.07, a certificate signed by an architect licensed in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky which certifies that the particular individual modular home, to which
the certification applies, complies with all the standards set forth in §
151.21.
(Ord. O-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.23 SPOT CHECKS.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector may, at his discretion, spot check the
floor and roof joints of any modular home being constructed in the city,
notwithstanding the existence of an architect's certificate with respect to the
modular home which is required by §§
151.20 through
151.22.
   (B)   Should the spot check reveal any violation of the standards set out
herein, the City Building Inspector shall proceed according to the provisions
of §
151.07.
(Ord. O-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.24 RELIEF FROM REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to relieve a modular
home from the ground coverage requirements or any other provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. O-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
Penalty, see § 151.99
BOARD OF BUILDING AND HOUSING APPEALS
§ 151.30 APPOINTMENT.
   There is established in the city a board to be called the Board of Building
and Housing Appeals, which shall consist of three members. This Board shall be
composed of at least two members from the City Council and one member shall be
appointed at large from the general public. The Board shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent and approval of the City Council.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.31 TERM.
   Of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for a term of one
year and one for a term of three years. Thereafter, they shall be appointed for
terms of four years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the
manner in which original appointments are required to be made. Continued
absence of any member from regular meetings of the Board shall, at the
discretion of the City Council, render the board member subject to immediate
removal from office.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.32 QUORUM.
   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In varying the
application of any provision of this code or in modifying an order of the City
Inspector, affirmative votes of the majority present, but not less than two
affirmative votes, shall be required. No board member shall act in a case in
which he has a personal interest.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.33 RECORDS.
   The City Inspector shall act as Secretary of the Board of Building and
Housing Appeals and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which
shall set forth the reasons for its decisions, the vote of each member
participating therein, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to
vote.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.34 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet at regular intervals to be determined by the Chairman,
or, in any event, the Board shall meet within ten days after notice of appeal
has been received.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.35 TIME LIMIT FOR APPEAL.
   Whenever the City Inspector shall reject or refuse to approve the mode or
manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the
erection or alteration of a building or structure, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of this code do not apply, that an equally good or more
desirable form of construction can be employed in any specific case, or that
the true intent and meaning of this code or any of the regulations thereunder
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the owner of the building or
structure, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal from the decision of the
City Inspector to the Board of Building and Housing Appeals. The notice of
appeal shall be in writing and filed within 90 days after the decision is
rendered by the City Inspector. A fee of $10 shall accompany the notice of
appeal.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.36 VARIATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Building and Housing Appeals, after a hearing, may vary
the application of any provision of this chapter to any particular case when in
its opinion the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be
contrary to the spirit and purpose of this chapter or public interest, or when
in its opinion the interpretation of the City Inspector should be modified or
reversed.
   (B)   A decision of the Board of Building and Housing Appeals to vary the
application of any provision of this chapter or to modify an order of the City
Inspector shall specify in what manner the variation or modification is made,
the conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons therefor.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.37 DECISIONS.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board of Building and Housing Appeals shall be
final, subject to the remedy any aggrieved party might have at law or in
equity. It shall be in writing and shall indicate the vote upon the decision.
Every decision shall be promptly filed in the office of the City Inspector and
shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or
otherwise to the appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the
office of the City Inspector for two weeks after filing.
   (B)   The Board of Building and Housing Appeals shall, in every case, reach
a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
   (C)   If a decision of the Board of Building and Housing Appeals reverses or
modifies a refusal, order, or disallowance of the City Inspector, or varies the
application of this chapter, the City Inspector shall immediately take action
in accordance with the decision.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.38 EFFECT ON PENDING LITIGATION.
   Nothing in this chapter or in the codes hereby adopted shall be construed to
affect any suit or proceeding now pending in any court, or any rights acquired,
or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action accrued or existing,
under any act or ordinance repealed hereby, nor shall any right or remedy of
any character be lost, impaired, or affected by this chapter.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
§ 151.39 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with any existing code, ordinance, or regulation of the city, the provision
which established the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. O-171-63, passed 12-17-63)
BARBED WIRE FENCING
§ 151.50 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   That barbed wire fencing is prohibited on all property which is used for
residential purposes or which is located within a residential zone.
(Ord. O-24-92, passed 9-8-92)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.51 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Barbed wire fencing may be used on commercial, industrial, agricultural or
public property provided that along any boundary where the property adjoins
residential property, barbed wire may only be used on top of a fence or wall,
which is constructed of materials other than barbed wire, and the lowest strand
of barbed wire shall not be less than five feet above the ground.
(Ord. O-24-92, passed 9-8-92)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.52 GRACE PERIOD FOR REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED OR NONCONFORMING BARBED WIRE
FENCING.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any property in the city on
which there is located barbed wire fencing of the type which is prohibited by
this ordinance to remove the fencing within 90 days of the effective date of
this ordinance.
(Ord. O-24-92, passed 9-8-92)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than
$500, or confined in jail for not more than 60 days, or both. Each day the
violation shall exist shall, in the discretion of the court, be considered a
separate offense. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the city from instituting any appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent or halt any unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct, or
abate any violation, to prevent the occupancy of a building, a structure, or
premises, or to prevent any illegal action or act, conduct, business, or use in
or about any building, structure, water line, or sewer line.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-17-63)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of signing or tendering
to the city any certificate required by §
151.22 which falsely certifies compliance with the standards set out herein
with respect to any modular home, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500, or confined in jail not more than 60 days, or both. The imposition
of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the city from instituting
any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or halt any unlawful erection
or construction, to restrain, correct, or abate any violation, or to prevent
the occupancy of any modular home.
(Ord. 0-1-71, passed 1-26-71)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
151.08 shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $500 for each
conviction. Each day and each incident of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-42-77, passed 10-25-77)
   (D)   Any failure to comply with the provisions of §§
151.50 -
151.52 is hereby designated a violation. Each day that a violation of this
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any
person, firm or corporation who violates the terms of those sections shall be
fined an amount not to exceed $250 for each offense.
(Ord. O-24-92, passed 9-8-92)
CHAPTER 152: STANDARDS OF SAFETY
Section
   
152.01   Adoption
   
152.02   Enforcement of chapter
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety Fire Prevention Code as revised and
updated effective September 11, 1990, by the Department of Housing, Buildings
and Construction and the Office of the State Fire Marshall, together with the
standards and codes incorporated therein, shall be and the same is hereby
approved and adopted by the city and shall be applicable to the construction,
reconstruction, repair and maintenance of buildings or structures within the
city.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments or revisions to the Kentucky Standards of
Safety Fire Prevention Code adopted in this division (A) and the codes and
standards incorporated therein which are approved by the Kentucky Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction and the Office of the Kentucky State Fire
Marshall, or their successors in office, shall be as the date of such approval,
automatically adopted and applicable and enforceable in the city.
(Ord. O-170-63, passed 11-26-63; Am. Ord. O-26-77, passed 8-23-77; Am. Ord. O-
18-91, passed 9-10-91)
Penalty, see § 152.99
Statutory reference:
   Standards of safety, see KRS 227.300
§ 152.02 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The Fire Chief and all other officers, agents, and employees of the city are
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety
adopted in §
152.01.
(Ord. O-170-63, passed 11-26-63)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of KRS 227.200 through 227.410,
or any provision of a lawful order, rule, or regulation made under the
provisions of KRS 227.200 through 227.410, or induces another to violate any
provision of KRS 227.200 through 227.410 or of any lawful order, rule, or
regulation made thereunder, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$500, or confined in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both. Each
day the violations exist shall, in the court's discretion, be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the city from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent an
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, or to
prevent an illegal action or act, conduct, business, or use, in or about any
premises.
(Ord. O-170-63, passed 11-26-63)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Adoption
   
153.02   Amendments
Inspection and Collection Fees
   
153.10   Responsibilities of various city departments
   
153.11   Planning Commission to collect all fees
   
153.12   Notice of violations
   
153.13   Authority to stop work
   
153.14   Planning Commission not liable
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Inspection Fees of the City
§ 153.01 ADOPTION.
   The subdivision regulations adopted by the Boone County Planning Commission
are adopted by reference and incorporated as a part of this code as if fully
set out herein. Copies of the subdivision regulations are on file and may be
obtained from the City Clerk.
(Ord. O-34-80, passed 10-7-80)
§ 153.02 AMENDMENTS.
   Ordinances 0-35-80, 0-36-80, and 0-2-81, which amend the Boone County
Subdivision Regulations adopted by ordinance 0-34-80, are adopted by reference
and made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. O-35-80, passed 10-28-80; Ord. O-36-80, passed 11-11-80; Ord. O-2-81,
passed 1-27-81)
INSPECTION AND COLLECTION FEES
§ 153.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF VARIOUS CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The city, through its Public Services Department, shall be responsible
and authorized to inspect earth work and related grading for streets and
pavement of streets.
   (B)   The city, through its Florence Water and Sewer Commission, shall be
responsible and authorized to inspect earth work and related grading for
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water systems, facilities and appurtenances.
   (C)   The Building Inspection Department of Boone County, pursuant to the
Interlocal Agreement, shall be responsible for inspecting driveway aprons and
sidewalks located within a proposed or existing public right-of-way for
residential construction or development and be entitled to the fee for that
inspection. These duties and responsibilities are in addition to those building
inspection duties within the city that are now being performed by the Boone
County Building Inspection Department pursuant to the Interlocal Government
Agreement.
   (D)   The city, through its Public Services Department, shall be responsible
for inspecting driveway aprons and sidewalks located within a proposed or
existing public right-of-way for non-residential construction or development
and the city shall be entitled to the fee for that inspection.
   (E)   The city, through its Water and Sewer Commission, shall perform all
inspection duties and responsibilities of proposed and existing facilities and
all related appurtenances, including structures, lines, and all other
facilities relating to and involved in collection, distribution, transportation
and work relating to all public water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer
facilities within the city, including their installation, as required and
outlined within the standards and specifications of the adopted Boone County
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
§ 153.11 PLANNING COMMISSION TO COLLECT ALL FEES.
   (A)   The Boone County Planning Commission, being the agency receiving all
applications for subdivision developments and plat approvals, shall be
authorized and directed to collect all inspection fees of the city for the
inspection work of the Public Services Department and the Water and Sewer
Commission. Those inspection fees collected by the Boone County Planning
Commission shall be remitted to the city for the services of the Public
Services Department and directly to the Water and Sewer Commission for those
inspection services of the Water and Sewer Commission.
   (B)   The fees to be collected by the Boone County Planning Commission for
these inspection services are to be those Schedule of Inspection Fees adopted
herein and as set forth in the Appendix to this chapter. For this purpose, the
Construction Inspection Fees referred to in the Appendix of this chapter and
incorporated by reference herein as if fully set out, shall be and is approved
and adopted herein as the inspection fees of the city.
   (C)   The Boone County Planning Commission shall distribute and remit to the
city or its Water and Sewer Commission those fees collected for their
respective inspection services on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
§ 153.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is understood that any violation of the specification, standards or
provisions of the adopted Boone County subdivision regulations as applicable to
the city may be subject to a fine or other penalty authorized by KRS Chapter
100.
   (B)   Specifically, construction work without proper inspection shall
constitute a violation. Notification shall be given regarding any violation,
including a violation arising from work done without proper inspection. This
required notification shall include a written citation or notice of violation
to the contractor at the project site, or a letter to the developer of the
existing or proposed subdivision. The notification shall be given by the
appropriate agency or department and a deadline given to correct any problem or
violation.
   (C)   The property owner, applicant or developer may be advised to stop all
construction work at the project site so as to prevent further possible
violation and to address the violation at hand. If corrective action is not
taken within the time frame set forth in the notification of violation or
citation, a criminal complaint pursuant to the Kentucky Revised Statutes, may
be filed by the appropriate zoning enforcement officer in Boone District Court
or other appropriate forum against the developer of the proposed or existing
subdivision, property owner or applicant.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.13 AUTHORITY TO STOP WORK.
   If, after notification as outlined in §
153.12, corrective action relating to a particular violation of the adopted
Boone County subdivision regulations is not performed within the time frame set
forth in the notification, and the continued violation affects or could
potentially affect the public health, safety and general welfare, then the city
shall have the authority to stop all work at the site so that the city can take
corrective action as needed. If this occurs, the city shall determine whether
the corrective action is an emergency and therefore complete the corrective
action and the owner of the property shall be responsible to the city for all
costs associated with the corrective action. If not paid upon invoicing for
these performed by the city, the property owner shall be subject to a lien
being placed on the subject property by the city, such lien to be placed of
record in the Boone County Clerk's office, to obtain reimbursement of public
funds for the work performed.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.14 PLANNING COMMISSION NOT LIABLE.
   The city shall indemnify and hold the Boone County Planning Commission
harmless from any claim or dispute resulting in the Commission having to make a
refund or pay any sum of money to any person, business, company or other entity
for the Commission collection of the inspection fees adopted herein on behalf
of the city, or its Water and Sewer Commission, and for all costs, damages,
penalties, interest or other monetary expenses, including legal fees or court
costs or expenses.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the adopted Boone County subdivision regulations
as applicable to the city, or performing work at a subdivision site without
inspection shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10, but not more
than $500, for each conviction on each violation. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-5-93, passed 3-9-93)
APPENDIX: INSPECTION FEES OF THE CITY
I.   City/County Construction Inspection Fees
   1.   Improvement Plan Review
      A)   Earthwork/Grading and Street Pavement Inspections - $1.60 per lineal
foot along street centerlines.
      B)   Storm Drainage System Inspection - $0.75 per lineal foot of pipe.
      C)   Sanitary Sewer System Inspection - $0.55 per lineal foot of pipe.
      D)   Water System Inspection - $0.55 per lineal foot of pipe.
      E)   Driveway Apron/Sidewalk Inspections - $60.00 per driveway apron and
$0.10 per lineal foot of sidewalk in commercial, industrial or office
subdivision. For residential subdivisions, a similar fee is required upon
submittal of a building permit application.
      F)   If Earthwork/Grading Inspection fee is paid as part of Grading Plan
Review, the applicant shall only submit a fee for street pavement inspection or
$0.80 per lineal foot along street center lines.
      G)   If Storm Drainage System Inspection fee is paid as part of Grading
Plan Review, the applicant shall not be required to submit an additional fee.
   NOTE:   Construction Inspection Fees shall be limited to improvement items
to be dedicated for public use and maintenance on Final Plats and grading work
on the entire site or a portion thereof.
         Construction Inspection Fees shall be measured and calculated by the
applicant and be verified by the Boone County Planning Commission according to
the submitted Improvement Plan drawings.
         For Improvement Plan Reviews, seventy-five percent (75%) of the fee
for Items A-G shall be submitted prior to approval of said plans with the
remaining balance to be submitted prior to approval of the Final Plat.
   2.   Grading Plan Review
      A)   Earthwork/Grading Inspection - $0.80 per lineal foot along street
center lines as indicated on approved Preliminary Plat.
      B)   Storm Drainage System Inspection - $0.75 per lineal foot of pipe if
proposed as part of Grading Plan Review.
   NOTE:   Construction Inspection Fees shall be limited to grading plan items
to be dedicated for public use and maintenance on Final Plats and grading work
of the entire site or portion thereof.
         For Grading Plan Review, one hundred percent (100%) of the fee for
Items A & B shall be submitted prior to approval of said plan.
         If fees for Items A & B are paid at the Grading Plan Review stage,
then these fees are not required at Improvement Plan Review and Final Plat
Review unless changes are made.
         Construction Inspection Fees shall be measured and calculated by the
applicant and verified by the Boone County Planning Commission according to the
submitted Grading Plan drawings and approved Preliminary Plat.
   3.   Final Plat Review
      A)   Remaining balance of the fee (25%) required in Items A-G under
Improvement Plan Review to be submitted within each section of a Final Plat,
where applicable.
   NOTE:   Construction inspection fees shall be limited to improvement items
dedicated for public use and maintenance on Final Plats.
         Construction inspection fees shall be measured and calculated by the
applicant and be verified by the Boone County Planning Commission according to
the submitted Final plat drawings and approved Improvement Plan.
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption
   
154.02   Variances
   
154.03   City of Florence Property Maintenance Code
   
Appendix: Property Maintenance Code
§ 154.01 ADOPTION.
   That pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5) the International Property Maintenance Code
of 2000, first printing, publication date November 1999, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. (the "Code") the provisions of which are
printed in §
154.03, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city,
except as same is hereinafter amended.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
§ 154.02 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power, with respect to single family
residences, to grant a variance from the terms of Chapters 4, 5 and 6 of this
code upon the hearing of a citation for its violation.
   (B)   Before any such variance is granted, the Board must find that the
granting of the variance:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare;
      (2)   Will not cause a hazard or nuisance to the public;
      (3)   Will not permit unreasonable circumvention of the requirements of
the code; and
      (4)   That the building which is the subject of the alleged violation is
more than 30 years old.
   (C)   In making its findings the Board must consider:
      (1)   That the variance arises from special circumstances which do not
generally apply to buildings in the same general vicinity;
      (2)   The strict application of the provisions of the code would create
an unnecessary hardship on the violator; and
      (3)   The circumstances are the result of actions taken before the
adoption of the Code.
   (D)   The Board shall not grant a variance if circumstances have arisen that
are the result of a willful violation of the Code by the alleged violator.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
§ 154.03 CITY OF FLORENCE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The following Appendix contains the text of the City of Florence Property
Maintenance Code as adopted June 10, 2003, and subsequently amended.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03; Am. Ord. O-4-06, passed 3-28-06; Am. Ord. O-12-
09, passed 8-25-09)
APPENDIX: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101
GENERAL
101.1 Title.
   These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of City of
Florence, Kentucky, hereinafter referred to as "the Code".
101.2 Scope.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential and
nonresidential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment, and facilities
for light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, protection from the
elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and
sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators and occupants;
the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration,
enforcement and penalties.
101.3 Intent.
   This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein.
101.4 Severability.
   If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 102
APPLICABILITY
102.1 General.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters affecting or relating
to structures and premises, as set forth in Section 101. Where, in a specific
case, different sections of this code specify different requirements, the most
restrictive shall govern.
102.2 Maintenance.
   Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this code or a
previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was
constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. The
requirements of this code are not intended to provide the basis for removal or
abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing
structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the owner's
designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures and premises.
102.3 Application of other codes.
   Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy,
shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
International Building Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Mechanical Code, International Fuel Gas Code and the ICC Electrical Code.
Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any
provision of the International Zoning Code.
102.4 Existing remedies.
   The provisions in this code shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any structure, which is dangerous, unsafe and
unsanitary.
102.5 Workmanship.
   Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations which are caused
directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be executed and
installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation instructions.
102.6 Historic buildings.
   The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or
structures designated by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings
when such buildings or structures are judged by the Code Official to be safe
and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
102.7 Referenced codes and standards.
   The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are
listed in Chapter 8 and considered part of the requirements of this code to be
prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this
code shall apply.
102.8 Requirements not covered by code.
   Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or property operation of
an existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public safety, health
and general welfare, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined
by the Code Official.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 103
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FIRE/EMS DEPARTMENTS TO PERFORM MAINTENANCE INSPECTION
103.1 General.
   The Public Services Department and Fire/EMS Department shall be charged with
the responsibility of conducting inspections authorized by this code and the
Public Services Director and Fire/EMS Chief shall be known as Code Officials.
103.2 Appointment.
   The Code Official shall have authority to appoint a Public Services Code
Enforcement Administrator and a Fire/EMS Code Enforcement Administrator who
shall be Code Enforcement Officers as that term is defined under the provisions
of Ordinance O-7-02.
103.3 Deputies.
   In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with
the concurrence of the appointing authority, the Code Official shall have the
authority to appoint a Deputy Code Official, other related technical officers,
inspectors and other employees.
103.4 Restriction of employees.
   An official or employee connected with the enforcement of this code shall
not be engaged in, or directly or indirectly connected with, the furnishing of
labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance
of a building, or the preparation of construction documents thereof, unless
that person is the owner of the building; nor shall such officer or employee
engage in any work that conflicts with official duties or with the interests of
the department.
103.5 Liability.
   The Code Official, officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this
code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered liable
personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage
accruing to persons or property as a result of an act required or permitted in
the discharge of official duties.
   Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act
performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and
under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal representative
of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The Code
Official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code; and
any officer of the Public Services or Fire/EMS Departments, acting in good
faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under
any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of
official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 104
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
104.1 General.
   The Code Official shall enforce the provisions of this code.
104.2 Rule-making authority.
   The Code Official shall have authority as necessary in the interest of
public health, safety and general welfare, to interpret and implement the
provisions of this code; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions.
104.3 Inspections.
   The Code Official shall make all of the required inspections, or shall
accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. All reports
of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible
individual. The Code Official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as
deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to
the approval of the appointing authority.
104.4 Right of entry.
   The Code Official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at
reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional restrictions on
unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
Code Official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law.
104.5 Identification.
   The Code Official shall carry proper identification when inspecting
structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
104.6 Notices and orders.
   The Code Official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with this code.
104.7 Department records.
   The Code Official shall keep official records of all business and activities
of the department specified in the provisions of this code. Such records shall
be retained in the official records as long as the building or structure to
which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided for
by other regulations.
104.8 Coordination of inspections.
   Whenever in the enforcement of this code or another code or ordinance, the
responsibility of more than one Code Official of the jurisdiction is involved,
it shall be the duty of the Code Officials involved to coordinate their
inspections and administrative orders as fully as practicable so that the
owners and occupants of the structure shall not be subjected to visits by
numerous inspectors or multiple or conflicting orders. Whenever an inspector
from any agency or department observes an apparent or actual violation of some
provision of some law, ordinance or code not within the inspector's authority
to enforce, the inspector shall report the findings to the Code Official having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 105
APPROVAL
105.1 Modifications.
   Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of this code, the Code Official shall have the authority to grant
modifications for individual cases, provided the Code Official shall first find
that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code
and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety
requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded
and entered in the department files.
105.2 Alternative materials, methods and equipment.
   The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of
any material or to prohibit any method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved.
An alternative material or method of construction shall be approved where the
Code Official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with
the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or
work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that
prescribed in this code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability and safety.
105.3 Required testing.
   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of
this code, or evidence that a material or method does not conform to the
requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative
materials or methods, the Code Official shall have the authority to require
tests to be made as evidence of compliance at no expense to the jurisdiction.
105.3.1 Test methods.
   Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test
standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, the Code
Official shall approve the testing procedures.
105.3.2 Testing agency.
   All tests shall be performed by an approved agency.
105.3.3 Test reports.
   Reports of tests shall be retained by the Code Official for the period
required for retention of public records.
105.4 Material and equipment reuse. 
   Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements
are in good repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed
in good and proper working condition and approved.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 106
VIOLATIONS
106.1 Unlawful acts.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in conflict
with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
106.2 Violations designated as civil offense.
   All violations of this code are designated as civil offenses and enforced by
imposing civil fines as set out in §§ 33.70 et seq. The City of Florence Code
Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders and impose
civil fines to enforce this code.
(Ord. O-10-16, passed 6-21-16)
106.5 Abatement of violation.
   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to
restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a
building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business
or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 108
UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
108.1 General.
   When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official to be unsafe, or
when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such
structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
108.1.1 Unsafe structures.
   An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by
not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of
fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or
unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
108.1.2 Unsafe equipment.
   Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving
stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other
equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or
condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety
of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
108.1.3 Structure unfit for human occupancy.
   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the Code Official finds
that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this
code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public.
108.1.4 Unlawful structure.
   An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by
more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered or
occupied contrary to law.
108.2 Closing of vacant structures.
   If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and
is not in danger of structural collapse, the Code Official is authorized to
post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed
up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close
up the premises within the time specified in the order, the Code Official shall
cause the premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency
or by contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate and may be collected by any other legal
resource.
108.3 Notice.
   Whenever the Code Official has condemned a structure or equipment under the
provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or the
person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment. If the notice
pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment.
108.4 Placarding.
   Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the notice
provisions within the time given, the Code Official shall post on the premises
or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word "Condemned" and a
statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the
equipment or removing the placard.
108.5 Prohibited occupancy.
   Any person who shall occupy a placarded premise or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises provided by this code, or operate
placarded equipment shall be liable for the penalties.
108.6 Removal of placard.
   The Code Official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard
without the approval of the Code Official shall be subject to the penalties
provided by this code.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 109
EMERGENCY MEASURES
109.1 Imminent danger.
   When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent danger of
failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life, or when
any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the
building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or
materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Code Official
is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate
the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows; "This Structure is
Unsafe and its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official." It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous
condition or of demolishing the same.
109.2 Temporary safeguards.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the opinion of
the Code Official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the
Code Official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding
up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the
legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such
other action to be taken as the Code Official deems necessary to meet such
emergency.
109.3 Closing streets.
   When necessary for public safety, the Code Official shall temporarily close
structures and close, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close,
sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and
prohibit the same from being utilized.
109.4 Emergency repairs.
   For the purposes of the section, the Code Official shall employ the
necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as
possible.
109.5 Costs of emergency repairs.
   Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the
jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute appropriate
action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was
located for the recovery of such costs.
109.6 Hearing.
   Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order
forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition filed with the
City Clerk directed to the City of Florence Code Enforcement Board, be afforded
a hearing as described in this code. Petitions shall include a request for
hearing as described in Ordinance No. O-7-02, Section VIII(F).
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 110
DEMOLITION
110.1 General.
   The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon which is
located any structure, which in the Code Official's judgment is so old,
dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner's
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish and remove such
structure.
110.2 Notices and orders.
   All notices and orders shall comply with Ordinance O-7-02.
110.3 Failure to comply.
   If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a demolition order within
the time prescribed, the Code Officer shall cause a citation to issue as
authorized by Ordinance O-7-02 which shall, in addition to the other
requirements of a citation, specifically inform the owner of his right to a
hearing before the City of Florence Code Enforcement Board, as permitted by KRS
81.770(4). If after a hearing, the Board orders demolition, then the Code
Officer shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through
an available public agency, or by contract or arrangement with private persons,
and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
110.4 Salvage materials.
   When any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the governing
body or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement aforesaid
shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at the highest
price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses
of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of
such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts
deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a
court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so
state.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 111
MEANS OF APPEAL
111.1 Application for appeal. 
   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official or a notice
or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the City of
Florence Code Enforcement Board, provided that a written application for appeal
is filed with the City Clerk within seven days after the day the decision,
notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall include a request
for hearing as described in Ordinance No. O-7-02. Section VIII(F). An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted there under have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means, or that the
strict application of any requirement of this code would cause an undue
hardship.
111.9 Appeal procedure.
   Appeals under this Section and Section 109.6 of this code shall be heard by
the Board following the procedure for hearings set forth in Ordinance No. O-7-
02. At the conclusion of such hearing the Board shall issue a finding granting
or denying the appeal and such other remedial or penalty orders as are
necessary to enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201
GENERAL
201.1 Scope.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the
purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
201.2 Interchangeability.
   Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural and the plural, the singular.
201.3 Terms defined in other codes.
   Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the
International Building Code, International Fire Code, International Zoning
Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code, ASME A17.1 or
the ICC Electrical Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
in those codes.
201.4 Terms not defined.
   Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section,
such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
201.5 Parts.
   Whenever the words "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises," "building,"
"rooming house," "rooming unit," or "story" are stated in this code, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof."
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 202
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
   APPROVED. Approved by the Code Official.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
faculties for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halts, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structures thereon.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, far compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or riving, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as apart of its case. It is
enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited, or
failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner, such as generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 301
GENERAL
301.1 Scope.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment and
exterior property.
301.2 Responsibility.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided
for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and
which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter. Occupants of a
dwelling unit are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe
condition that part of the dwelling unit or premises which they occupy and
control.
301.3 Vacant structures and land.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health
and safety.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 302
EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS
302.1 Sanitation.
   All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the exterior property
which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition.
302.2 Grading and drainage.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil
and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon.
   Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
302.3 Sidewalks and driveways.
   All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas
shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous
conditions.
302.4.1 Weeds.
   a.   All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds
or plant growth in excess of eight inches. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited and are hereby declared a nuisance. Weeds shall be defined as all
grasses and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term
shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   b.   It shall be unlawful and hereby declared a nuisance to allow any tree,
brush, hedge or other vegetation to grow in a manner that interferes with
normal sidewalk or street traffic, or to grow so as to pose a threat to safety
on public rights-of-way.
302.4.2 Landscaping.
   All landscape areas and landscape plantings shall be maintained in good
condition, free of weeds and other unsightly vegetation. All landscaping
including shrubs, brush, hedges, or other vegetation shall be maintained and
trimmed when necessary to prevent overgrowth.
302.4.3 Open pits.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain any open pit, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, pit excavation, septic tank, sewer, or well upon any
private property within the city.
302.5 Rodent harborage.
   All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from rodent
harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes, which will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate
rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
302.6 Exhaust vents.
   Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge gases, steam,
vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or particulate wastes
directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private property or that of
another tenant.
302.7 Accessory structures.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls,
shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
302.7.1 Gates.
   Gates which are required to be self-closing and self-latching in accordance
with the International Building Code shall be maintained such that the gate
will positively close and latch when released from a still position of six
inches (152 mm) from the gatepost.
302.7.2 Swimming pools.
   Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and in
good repair.
   (a)   Swimming pools which are constructed in-ground shall be required to
have a fence or wall, including a self-closing or self- locking gate around the
pool on the property on which the pool is located. Such fence or wall shall be
at least four feet but not more than six feet in height; such fences or walls
shall be constructed in such manner that a small child may not reach the pool
from the street or any adjacent property without climbing the fence or wall or
opening the gate or door.
   (b)   (1)   Swimming pools which are located above ground shall be required
to have a fence or wall, including a self-closing or self-locking gate around
the pool on the property on which the pool is located. Such fence or wall shall
be at least four feet, but not more than six feet in height. Such fence or wall
shall be constructed in such a manner that a small child may not reach the pool
from the street or any adjacent property without scaling a fence or wall or
opening the gate or door. The wall may be the wall of the above ground pool
providing that the wall is at least four feet in height above the surrounding
ground level.
      (2)   Any access to above ground pools by means of a ladder or stairway
shall be provided with a self-closing or self-locking door or gate, or some
other device that would prevent a small child from gaining access to the pool
by means of a ladder.
   (c)   All outdoor swimming pools shall be in compliance with this section
within six months of March 28, 2006.
   (d)   For purposes of this section, the term “swimming pool” shall be
defined as any pool, open tank, or structure intended for swimming or
recreational bathing, and containing a depth of at least 18 inches of water at
any point, including in-ground, above ground, and on-ground swimming pools.
(Am. Ord. O-4-06, passed 3-28-06)
302.9 Defacement of property.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface any
exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property
by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
302.10 Leaves and debris.
   No trash, leaves, paper or other debris shall be burned within the city,
unless burned in an incinerator, wire basket, or similar device which shall
provide an enclosure that will prevent any fire from spreading or endangering
other areas.
302.11 Nuisance created by others.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be necessary that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but that the nuisance exists on the
premises and the owner has actual knowledge thereof or by the exercise of
reasonable care should have become aware of it.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 303
EXTERIOR STRUCTURE
303.1 General.
   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair, structurally
sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare.
302.2 Protective treatment.
   All exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and window
frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows,
doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. All
metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such
rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized
and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be
removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
303.3 Premises identification.
   Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to be
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic, numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches
high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch. On residential property, numbers
shall be a maximum of eight inches high.
303.4 Structural members.
   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration, and
shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
303.5 Foundation walls.
   All foundation walls shall be maintained and free from open cracks and
breaks and shall be kept in such condition such as to prevent the entry of
rodents and other pests.
303.6 Exterior walls.
   All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting
materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where
required to prevent deterioration.
303.7 Roofs and drainage.
   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that admit
rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in
the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains, gutters and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof
water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
303.8 Decorative features.
   All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper
anchorage and in a safe condition.
303.9 Overhang extensions.
   All overhang extensions including, but not limited to canopies, marquees,
signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes, and exhaust ducts shall be
maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a sound
condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
303.10 Stairways, decks, porches and balconies.
   Every exterior stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with
proper anchorage and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
303.11 Chimneys and towers.
   All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar appurtenances shall
be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. All exposed
surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
303.12 Handrails and guards.
   Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
303.13 Window, skylight and door frames.
   Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound condition,
good repair and weather tight.
303.13.1 Glazing.
   All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and holes.
303.13.2 Openable windows.
   Every window, other than a fixed window, that is openable shall be capable
of being held in position by window hardware. Every door, window and other
outside opening required for ventilation of commercial rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or
stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less
than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door shall have a
self-closing device in good working condition.
303.14 Insect screens.
303.15 Doors.
   All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be maintained in good
condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming units and
guestrooms shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress doors shall
be in accordance with Section 702.3.
303.16 Basement hatchways.
   Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to prevent the entrance of
rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
303.17 Guards for basement windows. 
   Every basement window that is openable shall be supplied with rodent
shields, storm windows or other approved protection against the entry of
rodents. This subsection shall apply only to commercial property or multi-
family residential units.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 304
INTERIOR STRUCTURE
304.1 General.
   The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. Occupants shall
keep that part of the structure, which they occupy or control, in a clean and
sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming house, a
hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or two or more nonresidential
occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or
public areas of the structure and exterior property.
304.2 Structural members.
   All structural members shall be maintained structurally sound, and be
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
304.3 Interior surfaces.
   All interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in
good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking, or abraded
paint shall be repaired, removed, or covered. Cracked or loose plaster, decayed
wood, and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
304.4 Stairs and walking surfaces.
   Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch, deck or other walking surface
shall be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
304.5 Handrails and guards.
   Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
304.6 Interior doors.
   Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within its frame and shall be
capable of being opened and closed by being properly and securely attached to
jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer of the attachment
hardware.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 305
RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
305.1 Accumulation of rubbish and garbage.
   All exterior property and premises, and the interior of every structure,
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage. Such accumulation is
hereby declared a nuisance. Approved compost containers shall not be subject to
this subsection.
305.2 Disposal of rubbish.
   Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in containers which are adequately
self- contained so as not to permit the rubbish to be scattered or strewn
throughout the occupant’s premises or adjoining premises. The container may be
a box, can, barrel or bag, or any other receptacle which prevents the rubbish
from dissipating to adjoining areas.
305.2.1 Rubbish storage facilities.
   The owner of every occupied premise shall supply such containers for
rubbish, and the owner of the premises shall be responsible for the removal of
rubbish.
305.3 Disposal of garbage.
   Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of garbage in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved garbage disposal
facility or in a container as described in Section 305.2 herein.
305.3.1 Garbage facilities.
   The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of the following: an approved
mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit; an approved incinerator
unit in the structure available to the occupants in each dwelling unit; or a
container as ser forth in Section 305.2.
305.3.2 Placement of containers for collection.
   All rubbish and garbage containers shall be placed curbside no later than 7:
00 a.m. on the day designated for collection service pursuant to the city solid
waste collection contract. Said containers shall not be placed curbside for
collection more than 36 hours prior to the scheduled collection day.
305.3.3 Removal of containers.
   All rubbish and garbage containers shall be removed from curbside no later
than 36 hours following the scheduled collection day.
(Ord. O-12-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 306
EXTERMINATION
306.1 Infestation.
   All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent infestation. All
structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly exterminated
by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health. After
extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
306.2 Owner.
   The owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination within the
structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
306.3 Single occupant.
   The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination on the premises.
306.4 Multiple occupancy.
   The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a multiple
occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible
for extermination in the public or shared areas of the structure and exterior
property. If infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent such
infestation in the area occupied, the occupant shall be responsible for
extermination.
306.5 Occupant.
   The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the continued rodent
and pest-free condition of the structure.
   Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects of the structure,
the owner shall be responsible for extermination.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 4 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
SECTION 401
GENERAL
401.1 Scope.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
401.2 Responsibility.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain tight, ventilation and
space conditions in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy, any premises that
do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
401.3 Alternative devices.
   In lieu of the means for natural light and ventilation herein prescribed,
artificial light or mechanical ventilation complying with the International
Building Code shall be permitted.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 402
LIGHT
402.1 Habitable spaces.
   Every habitable space shall have at least one window of approved size facing
directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum total glazed area for every
habitable space shall be eight percent of the floor area of such room. Wherever
walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any room and such
obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from the window and
extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window shall not
be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for the
room.
   Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior glazing
areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be at least eight percent of the floor area of the
interior room or space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The
exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
402.2 Common halls and stairways.
   Every common hall and stairway in residential occupancies, other than in
one- and two-family dwellings, shall be lighted at all times with at least a
60-watt standard incandescent light bulb for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of
floor area or equivalent illumination, provided that the spacing between lights
shall not be greater than 30 feet (9144 mm). In other than residential
occupancies, means of egress, including exterior means of egress stairways
shall be illuminated at all times the building space served by the means of
egress is occupied with a minimum of one footcandle (11 lux) at floors,
landings and treads.
402.3 Other spaces.
   All other spaces shall be provided with natural or artificial light
sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions, and the safe
occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and
fixtures.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION
403 VENTILATION
403.1 Habitable spaces.
   Every habitable space shall have at least one openable window. The total
openable area of the window in every room shall be equal to at least 45 percent
of the minimum glazed area required in Section 402.1.
   Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be at least 8 percent of the floor area of the interior room or
space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to
the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
403.2 Bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply with the ventilation
requirements for habitable spaces as required by Section 403.1, except that a
window shall not be required in such spaces equipped with a mechanical
ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical ventilation system from a
bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the outdoors and shall not be re-
circulated.
403.3 Cooking facilities.
   Unless approved through the certificate of occupancy, cooking shall not be
permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit, and a cooking facility or
appliance shall not be permitted to be present in a rooming unit or dormitory
unit
   Exception: Where specifically approved in writing by the Code Official.
403.4 Process ventilation.
   Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious fumes, gases, dusts or mists
are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system shall be provided to remove
the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be exhausted to the exterior
and not be re- circulated to any space.
403.5 Clothes dryer exhaust.
   Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be independent of all other systems and
shall be exhausted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 404
OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
404.1 Privacy.
   Dwelling units, hotel units, rooming units and dormitory units shall be
arranged to provide privacy and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
404.2 Minimum room widths.
   A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall not be less than seven feet
(2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a clear passageway of not
less than three feet (914 mm) between counterfronts and appliances or
counterfronts and walls.
404.3 Minimum ceiling heights.
   Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet
rooms and habitable basement areas shall have a clear ceiling height of not
less than seven feet (2134 mm).
   Exceptions:
      1.   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not less
than four feet (1219 mm) on center and projecting not more than six inches (152
mm) below the required ceiling height.
      2.   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied exclusively
for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a ceiling height of not less
than six feet eight inches (2033 mm) with not less than six feet four inches
(1932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts and similar obstructions.
      3.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes
and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear ceiling
height of at least seven feet (2134 mm) over not less than one-third of the
required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only
those portions of the floor area with a clear ceiling height of five feet (1524
mm) or more shall be included.
404.4 Bedroom requirements.
   Every bedroom shall comply with the requirements of Sections 404.4.1 through
404.4.5.
404.4.1 Area for sleeping purposes.
   Every bedroom occupied by one person shall contain at least 70 square feet
(6.5 m2) of floor area, and every bedroom occupied by more than one person
shall contain at least 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant
thereof.
404.4.2 Access from bedrooms.
   Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of access to other bedrooms or
habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only means of egress from other
habitable spaces.
   Exception: Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
404.4.3 Water closet accessibility.
   Every bedroom shall have access to at least one water closet and one
lavatory without passing through another bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling
unit shall have access to at least one water closet and lavatory located in the
same story as the bedroom or an adjacent story.
404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy.
   Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
404.4.5 Other requirements.
   Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable provisions of this code including,
but not limited to, the light, ventilation, room area, ceiling height and room
width requirements of this chapter; the plumbing facilities and water-heating
facilities requirements of Chapter 5; the heating facilities and electrical
receptacle requirements of Chapter 6; and the smoke detector and emergency
escape requirements of Chapter 7.
404.5 Overcrowding.
   Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than permitted by the
minimum area requirements of Table 404.5.
TABLE 404.5
MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
 
Space           Minimum Area in Square Feet
                1-2 occupants     3-5 occupants 5 or more occupants
Living rooma, b No require- ments 120           150
Dining rooma, b No require- ments 80            100
Kitchenb        50                50            60
Bedrooms        Shall comply with Section 404.4
 
   For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093 m2.
   a.   See Section 404.5.2 For combined living room/dining room spaces.
   b.   See Section 404.5.1 For limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
404.5.1 Sleeping area.
   The minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5 shall not be included as
a sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area for sleeping
purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with Section 404.4.
404.5.2 Combined spaces.
   Combined living room and dining room spaces shall comply with the
requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to that required for
separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function as a combination
living room/dining room.
404.6 Efficiency unit.
   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency living unit from
meeting the following requirements:
   1.   A unit occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a clear floor
area of not less than 220 square feet (20.4 m2). A unit occupied by three
occupants shall have a clear floor area of not less than 320 square feet (29.7
m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by Items 2
and 3.
   2.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance and
refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less than 30
inches (762 mm) in front light and ventilation conforming to this code shall be
provided.
   3.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water
closet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower.
   4.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
404.7 Food preparation.
   All spaces to be occupied for food preparation purposes shall contain
suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary
manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary
disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 5 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 501
GENERAL
501.1 Scope.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum plumbing systems,
facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
501.2 Responsibility.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such plumbing
facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any structure or premises which does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 502
REQUIRED FACILITIES
502.1 Dwelling units.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or shower, lavatory, water
closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a sanitary, safe working
condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room as the water closet or
located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which
such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be used as a substitute
for the required lavatory.
502.2 Rooming houses.
   At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower shall be supplied
for each four rooming units.
502.3 Hotels.
   Where private water closets, lavatories, and baths are not provided, one
water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having access from a
public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
502.4 Employees’ facilities.
A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory and one drinking facility shall be
available to employees.
502.4.1 Drinking facilities.
   Drinking facilities shall be a drinking fountain, water cooler, bottled
water cooler, or disposable cups next to a sink or water dispenser. Drinking
facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or bathrooms.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 503
TOILET ROOMS
503.1 Privacy.
   Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall not constitute
the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior. A door and
interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared bathrooms
and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
503.2 Location.
   Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units or dormitory
units, shall have access by traversing not more than one flight of stairs and
shall have access from a common hall or passageway.
503.3 Location of employee toilet facilities.
   Toilet facilities shall have access from within the employees' regular
working area. The required toilet facilities shall be located not more than one
story above or below the employees' regular working area and the path of travel
to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of 500 feet (152m). Employee
facilities shall either be separate facilities or public customer facilities.
   Exception: Facilities that are required for employees in storage structures
or kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership,
lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from
the employees' regular working area to the facilities.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 504
PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES
504.1 General.
   All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained in working
order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and be
capable of performing the function for which such plumbing fixtures are
designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
functional condition.
504.2 Fixture clearances.
   Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances for usage and cleaning.
504.3 Plumbing system hazards.
   Where it is found that a plumbing system in a structure constitutes a hazard
to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service, inadequate
venting, cross connection, back-siphonage, improper installation, deterioration
or damage or for similar reasons, the Code Official shall require the defects
to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 505
WATER SYSTEM
505.1 General.
   Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain, water closet or
other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a public water
system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks, lavatories,
laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot or tempered
and cold running water in accordance with the International Plumbing Code.
505.2 Contamination.
   The water supply shall be maintained free from contamination, and all water
inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above the flood-level rim of the
fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink faucets, and other hose bibs or
faucets to which hoses are attached and left in place, shall be protected by an
approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an approved permanently attached
hose connection vacuum breaker.
505.3 Supply.
   The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to provide a
supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in sufficient
volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function properly,
safely, and free from defects and leaks.
505.4 Water heating facilities.
   Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained and capable
of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required sink,
lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a temperature of not less
than 120°F (49°C). A gas-burning water heater shall not be located in any
bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room normally kept closed,
unless adequate combustion air is provided. An approved combination temperature
and pressure-relief valve and relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained on water heaters.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 506
SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM
506.1 General.
   All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a public sewer
system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
506.2 Maintenance.
   Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall function properly and
be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 507
STORM DRAINAGE
507.1 General.
   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 6 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 601
GENERAL
601.1 Scope.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
601.2 Responsibility.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any premises which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 602
HEATING FACILITIES
602.1 Facilities required.
   Heating facilities shall be provided in structures as required by this
section.
602.2 Residential occupancies.
   Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a
room temperature of 65ºF (18ºC) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet
rooms based on the winter outdoor design temperature of the locality indicated
in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Cooking appliances shall not
be used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
602.3 Heat supply.
   Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or
more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom shall provide heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of not less than 70ºF in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
602.4 Occupiable workspaces.
   Indoor occupiable workspaces shall be supplied with heat to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65ºF (18ºC) during the period the spaces are
occupied.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
      2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
602.5 Room temperature measurement.
   The required room temperatures shall be measured three feet (914 mm) above
the floor near the center for the room and two feet (610 mm) inward from the
center of each exterior wall.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 603
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
603.1 Mechanical appliances.
   All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid fuel-burning appliances,
cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be capable of performing the
intended function.
603.2 Removal of combustion products.
   All fuel-burning equipment and appliances shall be connected to an approved
chimney or vent.
   Exception: Fuel-burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for
unvented operation.
603.3 Clearances.
   All required clearances to combustible materials should be maintained.
603.4 Safety controls.
   All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall be maintained in
effective operation.
603.5 Combustion air.
   A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel and for ventilation of
the space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be provided for the fuel-
burning equipment.
603.6 Energy conservation devices.
   Devices intended to reduce fuel consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning
appliance, to the fuel supply line thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent
piping there from, shall not be installed unless labeled for such purpose and
the installation is specifically approved.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 604
ELECTRICAL FACILITIES
604.1 Facilities required.
   Every occupied building shall be provided with an electrical system in
compliance with the requirements of the section and Section 605.
604.2 Service.
   The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as a basis for
determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with the ICC
Electrical Code. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt,
single-phase electrical service having a rating of not less than 60 amperes.
604.3 Electrical system hazards.
   Where it is found that the electrical system in a structure constitutes a
hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service,
improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and lighting outlets, improper wiring
or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the Code
Official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 605
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
605.1 Installation.
   All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be properly installed
and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
605.2 Receptacles.
   Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at least two separate and
remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall contain at least one
grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground fault circuit
interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one receptacle. Any new
bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit interrupter
protection.
605.3 Lighting fixtures.
   Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room, kitchen, bathroom,
laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain at least one electric
lighting fixture.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 606
ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS
606.1 General.
   Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained to sustain safely
all imposed loads, to operate properly, and to be free from physical and fire
hazards. The most current certificate of inspection shall be on display at all
times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or dumbwaiter; or the
certificate shall be available for public inspection in the office of the
building operator.
606.2 Elevators.
   In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least one elevator shall
be maintained in operation at all times when the building is occupied.
   Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be permitted to
have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or servicing.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 607
DUCT SYSTEMS
607.1 General.
   Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be capable
of performing the required function.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 7 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 701
GENERAL
701.1 Scope.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
701.2 Responsibility.
   The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such fire safety
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises
that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 702
MEANS OF EGRESS
702.1 General.
   A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be provided from
any point in a building or structure to the public way.
702.2 Aisles.
   The required width of aisles in accordance 1 with the International Fire
Code shall be unobstructed.
702.3 Locked doors.
   All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from the side from which
egress is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort,
except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted by the International
Building Code.
702.4 Emergency escape openings.
   Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be operational from the
inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars, grilles, grates, or
similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency escape and rescue
openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies with the
International Building Code and such devices shall be releasable or removable
from the inside without the use of a key, tool, or force greater than that
which is required for normal operation of the escape and rescue opening. Where
such bars, grilles, grates, or similar devices are installed in existing
buildings, smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with Section 704.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 703
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS
703.1 Fire resistance rated assemblies.
   The required fire resistance rating of fire resistance rated walls, fire
stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and floors shall be maintained.
703.2 Opening protectives.
   Required opening protectives shall be maintained in an operative condition.
All fire and smokestop doors shall be maintained in operable condition. Fire
doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or obstructed or otherwise
made inoperable.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
SECTION 704
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
704.1 Smoke detectors.
   Existing Group R occupancies not already provided with single-station smoke
alarms shall be provided with approved single- station smoke alarms.
704.2 Installation.
   Approved single-station smoke alarms shall be installed in existing dwelling
units, congregate residences, and hotel and lodging house guestrooms.
Installation shall be in accordance with the International Fire Code.
704.3 Power source.
   In Group R occupancies, single-station smoke alarms shall be battery
operated or shall receive their primary power from the building wiring provided
that such wiring is served from a commercial source. When power is provided by
the building wiring, the wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting
switch other than those required for overcurrent protection.
(Ord. O-11-03, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
General Provisions
   
155.10   Definitions
   
155.11   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.12   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
155.13   Establishment of development permit
   
155.14   Compliance
   
155.15   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.16   Interpretation
   
155.17   Warning and disclaimer or liability
   
155.18   Assurance to federal insurance administration
   
155.19   Public Services Director Responsibilities
Administration
   
155.30   Designation of local administrator
   
155.31   Permit procedures
   
155.32   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.45   General construction standards
   
155.46   Specific standards
   
155.47   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
155.48   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO zones)
   
155.49   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.50   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter ‘A’
   
155.51   Critical facilities
   
155.52   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
155.98   Enforcement; violation; notice
   
155.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council of Florence, Kentucky adopts the flood plain
management contained in this chapter.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Florence are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the
location in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increase in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage, and;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in
a special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   “A ZONE.” Portions of the special flood hazard areas (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).” A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principle structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
“ACCESSORY STRUCTURES” are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole
barns, and hay sheds.
   “ACCESSORY USE.” A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which
is connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls is new construction.
   “A1-30 AND AE ZONES.” Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   “AH ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   “AO ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   “AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES.” Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   “A99 ZONE.” That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is
to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system
under construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.” A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “B AND X ZONES (SHADED).” Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   “BASE FLOOD.” The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the “100-year flood”). “BASE FLOOD” is the term
used throughout this chapter.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and
AR/AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   “BASEMENT.” That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   “BUILDING.” A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground,
including a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See definition for “STRUCTURE.”
   “C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES.” Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   “COMMUNITY.” A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   “COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).” A program developed by the Federal
Insurance Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the
regular program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures for protection from flooding.
   “COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFEA).” An area that has been determined by
the Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. “CRITICAL FACILITIES” include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   “D ZONE.” An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   “ELEVATED STRUCTURE.” A non-basement structure built to have the lowest
floor elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation
perimeter walls, piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway
walls. (See freeboard requirements for residential and non- residential
structures.)
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   “EMERGENCY PROGRAM.” The initial phase under which a community participates
in the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   “ENCLOSURE.” That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation
(BFE) used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.” Any structure for which the “START OF CONSTRUCTION”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION” may also be referred
to as “EXISTING STRUCTURES.”
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision or which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the City of Florence
based on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the
area of special flood hazards.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FIVE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD).” The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood
have a moderate to low risk of flooding.
   “FLOOD,” “FLOODING,” or “FLOODWATER.”
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See “MUDSLIDES.”
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See “FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.”
   “FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).” A map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   “FLOOD HAZARD/BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).” A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.” The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN” or “FLOOD-PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   “FLOODPROOFING.” Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.”
   “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   “FREEBOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. “FREEBOARD” must be applied
not just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also
to the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   “FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.” As related in §
155.52, the variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of the
public. In examining this requirement, the City Council will consider the fact
that every newly constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and
remains a part of the community for 50 to 100 years. Structures that are
permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during
all those years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of
the property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may
incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is
subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood
insurance rates.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.” A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   “GOVERNING BODY.” The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality,
that is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   “HAZARD POTENTIAL.” The possible adverse incremental consequences that
result from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The “HAZARD POTENTIAL” classification
of a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).” “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE”
coverage provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state
or community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical
loss by flood. When a building covered by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy
under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building
to be substantially or repetitively damaged, “ICC” will help pay up to $30,000
for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish, or remove the building. “ICC”
coverage is available on residential and non-residential buildings (this
category includes public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries,
and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   “KRS 151.250.” Plans for dams, levees, etc. to be approved and permit issued
by Cabinet – (Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. “LOMCs” include the following
categories:
      (1)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” A revision based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A
“LOMA” amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific
property is not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F).” A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   “LEVEE.” A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “LEVEE SYSTEM.” A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
For a “LEVEE SYSTEM” to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   “LIMITED STORAGE.” An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a structure’s lowest floor provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with our without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property. The term “MANUFACTURED HOME” does not include a “recreational
vehicle.” (See “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.”)
   “MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL).” The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
costs of disaster response and recovery.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW).” Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
“MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW)” may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.” The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA.” An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   “NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).” The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   “NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).” As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer
to FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Structures for which the “START OF CONSTRUCTION”
commenced on or after the effect date of the City of Florence’s floodplain
management regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME BARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the City of Florence’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   “NON-RESIDENTIAL.” Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than 6 months’ duration.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).” As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’s and Digitally Referenced FIRM’s
(DFIRM’s). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   “ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD).” See “BASE FLOOD.” The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter ‘A’ is subject to the “100-YEAR FLOOD.”
Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a
flood with the SFHA.
   “PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.” A community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   “PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   “POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   “PROBATION.” A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   “PROGRAM DEFICIENCY.” A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.” Anything which is injurious to safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULAR PROGRAM.” The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See “BASE FLOOD.”
   “REMEDY A VIOLATION.” The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   “REPAIR.” The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing
structure.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.” Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   “RIVERINE.” Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   “SECTION 1316.” That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   “SHEET FLOW AREA.” See “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.”
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).” That portion of the floodplain subject
to inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development. The date the building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The actual
start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond
the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the structure. For a substantial improvement, the
actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling,
floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   “STRUCTURE.” A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See “BUILDING.”
   “SUBDIVISION.” Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels.
   “SUBROGATION.” An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.” Any damage to a building for which the cost or repairs
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss. For the purpose of this definition, “REPAIR” is considered to occur when
the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “HISTORIC STRUCTURE” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“HISTORIC STRUCTURE”.
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or
improvements to a building, taking place during a one-year period in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the current
market value of the building. For the purposes of this definition, an
improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not apply to:
(1) Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to assure safe
living conditions or (2) any alteration of a “HISTORIC STRUCTURE” provided that
the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“HISTORIC STRUCTURE” or (3) any building that has been damaged from any source
or is categorized as repetitive loss.
   “SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.”
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   “SUSPENSION.” Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   “UTILITIES.” Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   “VARIANCE.” Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   “VIOLATION.” Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.” The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   “WATERSHED.” All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   “X ZONE.” The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded “X ZONES” shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded “X ZONES” (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   “ZONE.” A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.11 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas, applicable to
KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or other
delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by the
City Council of Florence from available technical studies, historical
information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within the
jurisdiction of the City Council of Florence which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizens of Florence.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.12 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Boone County, dated
June 4, 2007, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs), other
supporting data, and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the City of
Florence, and for those land areas acquired by the City of Florence through
annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulation. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of the City of Florence and are on file and available for
review by the public during regular business hours at the Public Services
Department at 8100 Ewing Boulevard, Florence, Kentucky.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA). See §
155.31 for instructions and explanation. Application for a development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.14 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable state regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the
City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.15 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be: (a) considered as minimum requirements; (b) liberally construed in favor of
the governing body; and, (c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other
powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of Florence or any
officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.18 ASSURANCE TO FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City of Florence, Kentucky, assures the Federal Insurance Administration
that it will enact as necessary, and maintain in force in those areas having
flood, or flood- related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the Criteria set
forth in part 60 of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations (CFR44).
(Res. R-13-96, passed - - )
§ 155.19 PUBLIC SERVICES DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Public Services Director is vested with the responsibility, authority
and means to:
   (A)   Assist the Administrator, at his request, in his delineation of the
limits of the area having special flood, or flood-related erosion hazards.
   (B)   Provide such information as the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the flood plain, or flood-related erosion areas.
   (C)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify flood plain, or flood-
related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect
to management of adjoining flood plain, and/or flood-related erosion areas in
order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.
   (D)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the Community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order that all
Flood Hazard Boundary Maps and Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent
the community's boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of
the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate
limits or new area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood
plain management regulatory authority.
   (E)   The Public Services Director is hereby appointed to maintain for
public inspection and to furnish upon request for the determination of
applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special
flood hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate
Map, any certificates of flood-proofing, and information on the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest flood (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structure, and include whether
or not such structures include a basement, and if the structure has been
floodproofed; and
   (F)   The city hereby agrees to take such other official action as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Res. R-13-96, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Boone County Building Inspector, and/or his designee, is hereby
appointed to administer, enforce, and implement the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.31 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established by §
155.12. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application Stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential building will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the floodproofing criteria in §§
155.46(B)and
155.48(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction Stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before
construction continues, or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it
shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator and to the state a certification of the elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In
AE, A1-30, AH and A Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory Base
Flood Elevation, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure,
said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit Review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   (a)   The permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit.
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner.
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, “ADVERSELY
AFFECTS” means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and Use of Any Other Base Flood Data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
155.12 the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
155.45 et seq. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of Other Agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Kentucky Division of Water
and any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory
authority prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);and
         (c)   Assure that within the altered or relocated portion of said
waterway is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of Floodplain Development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
155.46(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.46(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
155.46(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
155.46(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
155.46(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
155.49(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
155.46(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §§
155.98 and
155.99.
      (5)   Map Determination. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
155.52(C);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
155.12, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
155.45 -
155.51;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
155.46(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of Entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of Permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not
thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any
suit brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act
performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter
shall be defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of Floodplain Construction Permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.45 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and,
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
155.12, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower than
one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of §
155.46(C).
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a State
Floodplain Permit: The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining
floodway boundaries(and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at
those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the Cabinet may require additional
cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by surveyor, and verified by the community building
inspection department to be properly elevated. Such certification and
verification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-Residential Construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
155.46(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is water tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
ductwork, elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the base flood
elevation, or;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
155.31(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
155.46(D).
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basement) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation one foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated Structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes complying with this requirements must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and,
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both direction.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and,
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction including
elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansion to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivisions; or
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions; or
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation, and
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the
level of the base flood elevation, and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that: The
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the level of the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes.”
      (5)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
155.12, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
155.46(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
155.45 -
155.51.
   (F)   Standards for Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.   
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.47 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
155.12, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
155.12.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.48 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.12, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements or residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no flood
depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated no
less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade, or
      (2)   Together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
155.46(B).
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.49 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage:
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and,
      (2)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available (Zone A or unmapped streams). Base flood elevation and floodway data
for subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
      (3)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed
structure(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base
flood elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.50 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER ‘A.’
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated ‘A’
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level one foot above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking;
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.51 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.52 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature Of Variances. The variance criteria set forth in this section
of the chapter are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances
pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may
be granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual
that complying with the requirements of this chapter would create an
exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The Boone County Building
Inspector Appeals Board shall serve as the Appeal Board hereunder.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/Variance Procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations all relevant factors, all
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for Variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. “MINIMUM NECESSARY” means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety. cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage, and;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Boone County Recorder and shall be recorded
in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic Structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No Impact Certification within the Floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07; Am. Ord. O-22-07, passed 10-9-07)
§ 155.98 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil Offense. If at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of Violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of Citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paving the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. O-28-96; Am. Ord. O-8-07, passed 5-22-07)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned, or
both, as provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the taking of such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation.
(Ord. O-28-96, passed 12-10-96)
CHAPTER 156: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
156.01   Standards for wiring
   
156.02   Appointment of Inspector
   
156.03   Report to Inspector
   
156.04   Inspection and approval prerequisite to connection
   
156.05   Liability for defects or failures
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 STANDARDS FOR WIRING.
   All electrical wiring within the boundaries of the city shall, when
installed for the purpose of being connected to a source of electrical energy,
be sufficiently insulated, supported, and protected to be reasonably free from
hazards to life and property caused by overloading, short-circuiting, and
improper protection or installation of electrical equipment. All electrical
wiring shall be in full compliance with the National Electric Code and the
National Electrical Safety Code, as provided by the American Standards
Association and the Standards of Safety as adopted and approved by the
Department of Insurance, Division of Fire Prevention and Rates, Commonwealth of
Kentucky, which Standards of Safety have heretofore been adopted or are hereby
adopted. Failure to comply with the aforementioned shall be prima facie
evidence of the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-36-74, passed 8-13-74)
§ 156.02 APPOINTMENT OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city has determined it to be in the best interest of its citizens
and in the promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare to exercise its
authority granted within the applicable sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes to appoint a person as Electrical Inspector within the city.
   (B)   A person appointed as Electrical Inspector shall be appointed for a
term of two years. Such person may be terminated from such appointment upon 14
days' written notice, with or without cause at the sole discretion of the city.
   (C)   A person appointed as Electrical Inspector must be properly certified
and meet the requirements of all applicable government agencies.
   (D)   A person appointed Electrical Inspector under this section shall apply
and enforce the standards of the uniform state building code applicable to
electrical inspections. The Electrical Inspector shall supply a copy of his
report of each inspection to the Building Inspector's office of the city, such
report to be completed and filed no later than one week after the inspection.
This report shall include all of the information and data required in the
reports to be provided by the Electrical Inspector to the Department of
Housing, Building, and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (E)   A person appointed Electrical Inspector under this section shall be
permitted to charge and be paid for services as Inspector an amount equal to
the prevailing wage for a master electrician applicable to the location in
which the city is located, multiplied by the time required to conduct the
inspection. This charge shall not be applied to travel time to and from the
inspection site. In addition, the Inspector may charge an amount for necessary
travel to and from the inspection site, such travel charges not to exceed the
amount per mile allowed to state employees and in no event shall it exceed more
than $10 per hour for travel time. The Inspector shall not impose charges for
services in excess of the amounts set forth herein.
   (F)   The Inspector's reports required to be filed with the office of the
Building Inspector shall meet the form requirements and may be done on the same
forms used by electrical inspectors to make reports to the Department of
Housing, Building, and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (G)   By exercising its statutory authority to appoint an Electrical
Inspector, the city does not establish an employer-employee relationship with
the Inspector. A person appointed as Electrical Inspector is not an employee of
the city and any charges imposed by the Inspector as authorized herein is for
the benefit of the Inspector and not for the city.
   (H)   It is not the intent of the city to create a city office by this
section. Rather, the City Council deems it appropriate for its citizens and the
public health, safety, and welfare to exercise its statutory authority to
appoint a person to the position of Electrical Inspector exercising his duties
as an Electrical Inspector, enforcing the uniform state building code relating
to electrical inspections and approvals within the city.
   (I)   It is understood that any person appointed as Electrical Inspector
under this section or the city may terminate the appointment at any time by
giving 14 days' written notice.
   (J)   No person except that person appointed as Electrical Inspector by the
city hereunder shall be authorized to perform electrical inspections within the
city.
(Ord. O-24-84, passed 9-25-84)
§ 156.03 REPORT TO INSPECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, or corporation installing,
repairing, or rearranging electrical wiring or equipment to notify the
Electrical Inspector prior to the time the work is commenced, and also when the
work is ready for inspection. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to conceal any electrical wiring or installation until after it has
been reported to the Electrical Inspector and has been inspected and approved
by the Inspector. The Inspector shall furnish and make available forms or
blanks for the aforesaid purpose.
(Ord. O-36-74, passed 8-13-74)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.04 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, including any
electric light or power company, to connect with or furnish current to any
electrical installation within the corporate limits of the city until after the
electrical installation has been inspected and approved by the Electrical
Inspector and a certificate of approval is issued by him.
(Ord. O-36-74, passed 8-13-74)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.05 LIABILITY FOR DEFECTS OR FAILURES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person, firm, or corporation owning,
operating, controlling, maintaining or installing any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances, or equipment for damages to person or property caused by
any defect or failure therein; nor shall the city be held as assuming any
liability or responsibility by reason of the inspection authorized herein or
the certificate of approval issued as herein provided.
(Ord. O-36-74, passed 8-13-74)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500, plus costs of
court, for each offense. Each day that the person, firm, or corporation
violates this chapter, or any provision thereof, and each day that any
prohibited condition is allowed to continue as a result of the work performed
or failed to be performed by any person, firm, or corporation, shall constitute
a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. O-36-74, passed 8-13-74)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
157.01   Adoption
§ 157.01 ADOPTION.
   The zoning regulations as prepared, adopted, and recommended by the Boone
County Planning Commission are adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
forth herein.
(Ord. O-34-86, passed 11-25-86; Am. Ord. O-27-90, passed 11-27-90; Am. Ord. O-
12-91, passed 6-11-91; Am. Ord. O-13-91, passed 6-26-91; Am. Ord. O-16-92,
passed 5-19-92; Am. Ord. O-23-92, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. O-26-92, passed 9-
22-92; Am. Ord. O-3-93, passed 2-23-93; Am. Ord. O-24-93, passed 9-28-83; Am.
Ord. O-29-93, passed 10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-30-93, passed 10-26-93; Am. Ord. O-
13- 94, passed 7-26-94; Am. Ord. O-3- 95, passed 3-28-95; Am. Ord. O- 20-95,
passed 10-31-95; Am. Ord. O-24-96, passed 11-19-96; Am. Ord. O-26-96, passed
11-19-96; Am. Ord. 0-26-98, passed 12-8-98; Am. Ord. 0-31-98, passed 1-12-99;
Am. Ord. O-25-99, passed 11-9-99; Am. Ord. O-20-02, passed 7-30-02; Am. Ord. O-
03-03, passed 2-4-03; Am. Ord. O-10-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. O-2-06, passed
1-24-06; Am. Ord. O-5-06, passed 3-28-06; Am. Ord. O-1-08, passed 2-26-08; Am.
Ord. O-15-08, passed 10-14- 08; Am. Ord. O-16-08, passed 10- 28-08; Am. Ord. O-
17-08, passed 10-28-08; Am. Ord. O-13-10, passed 11-23-10; Am. Ord. O-14- 11,
passed 9-13-11; Am. Ord. O-1- 12, passed 2-14-12; Am. Ord. O-2- 12, passed 3-
13-12; Am. Ord. O-6-14, passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. O-8-14, passed 4-8-14; Am.
Ord. O-29-14, passed 1-13-15; Am. Ord. O-14-16, passed 11-22-16; Am. Ord. O-6-
19, passed 3-12-19; Am. Ord. O-19-20, passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord. O-1-21, passed
1-26-21; Am. Ord. O-24-22, passed 12-21-22; Am. Ord. O-20-2024, passed 11-19-
24; Am. Ord. O-21-2024, passed 11-19-24; Am. Ord. O-23-2024, passed 12-17-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
          Table
            
 I.    ANNEXATIONS
             
II.    ACCEPTANCES
             
III.    BOND ISSUES
             
IV.   CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVALS
             
V.    CONTRACTS
             
VI.    FRANCHISES
             
VII.    REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
            
VIII.    STREET AND SIDEWALK GRADES
             
IX.    STREET IMPROVEMENTS
            
 X.    STREET NAME CHANGES
             
XI.    VACATIONS
             
XII.    WATER AND SEWER LINE IMPROVEMENTS
            
XIII.    REZONING
             
XIV.    MUNICIPAL LAND TRANSFERS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
O-70-30  1930   Tract beginning at Price Pike and Locust Street
O-79-31  2-3-31 J.P. Tanner and other residents (see Ord. 70 - court case)
O-93-31  11-3-  Beginning at corner of Eldora Cole's Subdivision, Price Pike and Locust Street
         31
O-105-33 1933   Property adjacent to northeast corporation line
O-150-38 1938   Property adjacent to southeast corporation line near Elsmere
O-151-39 1-24-  Contiguous territory on northeast of city
         39
O-162-40 1940   Area near Goodridge Drive
         5-13-  Beginning at the city limits and the rear of lot ll of Rosemont Subdivision
O-199-47 47     running south 44 degrees east along the northerly line of Ernst Realty property
                a distance of 696.3 feet to a corner
O-202-47 1947   U.S. 42 near Carpenter's Addition
O-204-47 12-9-  Contiguous territory on the west near Stringtown-on-the-Pike Subdivision
         47
O-217-50 1950   Beginning where lot 38 of Carpenter Subdivision intersects U.S. 25
O-219-50 7-27-  Contiguous territory on the south in the vicinity of Carpenter Subdivision
         50
O-229-51 11-13- Contiguous territory on the west
         51
O-230-51 11-13- Contiguous territory on the north
         51
O-231-51 11-13- Contiguous territory on the west, Grandview Heights Subdivision
         51
O-238-52 7-12-  Contiguous territory on the south near Fairfield Subdivision
         52
O-239-52 7-12-  Contiguous territory on the west, on south side of Highway 18
         52
O-242-52 8-28-  Beginning at a point at the intersection of the center line of Price Pike
         52
O-243-52 10-14- Contiguous territory on the northwest near Price Pike
         52
O-253-53 2-24-  Beginning at a point at the most southwesterly corner of Grandview Heights
         53     Subdivision
O-255-53 4-14-  Contiguous territory on the southwest near Grandview Heights Subdivision
         53
O-267-53 10-13- Contiguous territory near Boone County High School
         53
         10-13- Beginning at a point the intersection of the center line of Center Street
O-268-53 53     (Oelsner's Lane) with the projection of the west line of lines 70 and 67 of
                Bluegrass Subdivision
O-272-53 11-24- Contiguous territory on the southwest beginning at Grandview Heights Subdivision
         53
O-273-53 11-24- Contiguous territory on the west near Bluegrass Subdivision
         53
O-293-54 9-15-  Area near Old Carpenter property
         54
O-299-54 11-23- Beginning at the intersection of the northeast line of the J. H. Bustetter tract
         54     of land within the city limits
O-304-55 1-11-  Area northwest of city near Monta Vista Subdivision
         55
O-307-55 3-12-  Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton County
         55
O-311-55 6-14-  Area beginning at Kentaboo Drive
         55
O-317-55 6-21-  Area on south city limits going south on U.S. 25
         55
O-330-56 2-14-  Frontage of Taylor and Heger Tracts, Dixie Highway
         56
O-334-56 4-17-  Kenton Investment Tract
         56
O-338-56 5-22-  George Taylor Tract
         56
O-340-56 6-12-  Tanners Lane, Center Street and Denham Subdivision
         56
O-356-56 11-13- Price Pike area
         56
O-357-56 11-13- Tract from Price Pike including part of Alondale and Earl-Wood
         56
O-360-57 1-8-57 Heger and Back tracts
O-361-57 1-8-57 Price Pike area to and including Tanners Lane
O-369-57 5-14-  Braunwort tract
         57
O-378-57 1957   Territory on the northwest beginning at city limits and center of Tanners Lane
O-23-59  1-13-  Territory between Tanners Lane, Burlington Pike, and U.S. 42
         59
O-50-59  11-10- Goodridge and Sanders Drives, nonpariel Park Subdivision
         59
                Territory beginning at a point being the intersection of a line 200 feet
O-83-61  3-3-61 southwest and parallel to Old Tanners Lane with a line 400 feet west of and
                parallel with U.S. 42 thence with the present city limits.
O-89-60  1960   Deters tract
O-94-61  1961   Northern Kentucky Industrial Park, Inc.
O-161-63 1963   Property in Boone Vista Subdivision
O-164-63 8-13-  Annexing certain territory (ord. missing)
         63
O-169-63 11-26- Territory to the southwest of city
         63
O-218-65 4-20-  Territory to the northwest of city
         65
O-219-65 4-20-  Territory to the northwest of city
         65
O-220-65 4-20-  Territory to the northwest of city
         65
O-240-65 10-12- Northwest corner of I-75 and U.S. 42
         65
O-259-66 1966   Parcel of property on Hopeful Road owned by Ford Mills
O-260-66 1966   Tanner property
O-261-66 1966   Gardt property on Glenrose Avenue
O-278-66 1966   Property at corner of U.S. 42 and La Creste Drive in V. Parr Subdivision
O-287-66 11-9-  Ockerman School property
         66
O-288-66 11-9-  Shell Station, U.S. 42 etc.
         66
O-305-67 4-26-  I-75 right-of-way to Route 356 Frogtown Road
         67
O-321-67 10-3-  Bikler and Utzinger properties on U.S. 42
         67
O-9-68   3-26-  Lot 10, Buena Vista Subdivision
         68
O-12-68  4-9-68 Annexing territory beginning at a point in the existing city limits being in the
                center of U.S. 42 and 900 feet west of the southbound off ramp of I-75
O-17-68  5-15-  E. Wright property on U.S. 42
         68
O-20-68  5-29-  Airview Drive Subdivision
         68
O-24-68  6-27-  Portion of Dilcrest Manor Subdivision (30 acres)
         68
O-33-68  9-10-  T.C. and Ronnie Crume property lying adjacent to U.S. 42 at Evergreen Drive
         68
O-9-70   6-9-70 Annexing certain territory beginning at the intersection of Lake Drive with
                Hopeful Road (Boone Vista)
O-10-70  6-9-70 Annexing certain territory beginning in the west right-of-way of Yealey Drive
                (Votel Gross Property)
O-15-70  8-25-  Annexing certain territory on the east side of Hopeful Road (Frank Butler)
         70
O-25-70  11-17- Annexing certain territory beginning at the intersection of U.S. 42 and Dilcrest
         70     Drive
O-9-72   4-25-  Annexing territory beginning in the center of U.S. 42 at the intersection of lot
         72     l Fairview Subdivision (John Jacobsen property)
O-10-72  4-25-  Annexing territory beginning in the center of U.S. 42, then north (Sunoco
         72     property)
O-11-72  4-25-  Annexing certain territory beginning 500 feet north of the centerline of Mt.
         72     Zion Road with the east right-of-way of I-75
O-12-72  4-25-  Annexing territory beginning at a point in the present city limits being in the
         72     eastern right-of-way of West Dilcrest
O-13-72  4-25-  Annexing lots 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89,
         72     9l, 93, and 95 of Dilcrest Subdivision
O-14-72  4-25-  Annexing territory beginning at a point being common corner of the tract with
         72     Chelsa Development (Fisher a/k/a Kinsey Property)
O-22-72  6-27-  Annexing territory beginning at the intersection of the east lot line of lot l
         72     Carey Fisher Subdivision
O-31-72  8-22-  Annexing territory beginning at a point in the center of Service Road 9 (Ammon
         72     Nursery - Chelsa Development)
O-20-73  5-8-73 Annexing property beginning at the intersection of Sycamore Drive and U.S. 42
                (Helmer Property)
O-29-73  8-28-  Annexing territory located in Boone County on Old Grandview Road south of
         73     Nonpareil Park Subdivision (Barth property)
O-35-73  10-11- Annexing territory located on the northeast side of Pleasant Valley Road (D.B.S.
         73     Development Corp.)
O-1-74   2-12-  Annexing lot 3 of the subdivision of Carey Fisher's lots and acreage tracts
         74     (Howard Allen property)
O-10-74  4-9-74 Annexing territory beginning at a point in the center of Utterback Road (Kenner
                Tract)
O-11-74  4-9-74 Annexing a parcel of land lying in the rear of lot 2 of the V. Parr Subdivision
O-25-74  8-13-  Annexing territory commencing at the intersection of U.S. 42 with Dilcrest Drive
         74     (Mall Road Property)
O-29-74  8-27-  Annexing lots 1 through 5 and 16 through 19 Shamrock Hill Subdivision
         74
O-30-74  8-27-  Annexing lots 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 of V. Parr Subdivision and 2 other parcels
         74
O-39-74  10-22- Annexing territory beginning at a point in the easterly right-of-way of Hopeful
         74     Road in the north line of the Butler Tract (Boone-Kenton Land Corporation)
O-40-74  10-22- Annexing territory beginning at a point in the line of Crume 20 feet from the
         74     centerline of Evergreen Drive
O-41-74  10-22- Annexing territory beginning at a point in the existing city limits in the
         74     right-of-way of Relocated Ky. 18
O-43-74  11-12- Annexing lot 34, Dilcrest Manor Subdivision and part of lot 33 (Weghorn
         74     Property)
O-44-74  11-12- Annexing two parcels:
         74
              (1)   Located on the south side of Route 42 beginning at a point in the south
                right-of-way line of Route 42
              (2)   Lying in the rear of lot 9 of the V. Parr Subdivision
O-19-75  5-29-  Annexing lot l of Pleasant Valley Acres Block A
         75
O-28-75  8-26-  Annexing territory beginning at a point in the right-of-way of U.S. 42, a corner
         75     with Williamsburg West Subdivision
O-33-75  10-14- Annexing territory beginning in the southwest right-of-way line of Pleasant
         75     Valley Road, a corner with L. E. Bergin's tract
O-34-75  11-11- Annexing territory beginning at a point in the right-of-way of U.S. 42 being in
         75     the center of Old Toll Road (Harms Triangle)
O-5-76   2-10-  Annexing territory on the west side of Hopeful Rural Highway (Ky. 1018, about
         76     l.2 miles southwest of Ky. 18) (Church of God)
O-35-76  8-24-  Robert Hill property
         76
O-39-76  9-14-  Annexing territory beginning at a point in the west right-of-way of North
         76     Dilcrest a corner of lot 122 (Harms property)
O-12-77  4-26-  Contiguous territory on the southeast corporation line, the Northern Kentucky
         77     Church of Christ property
O-17-77  7-12-  Contiguous territory on the west corporation line, the Jaso property
         77
O-18-77  6-28-  Contiguous territory on the west corporation line, the Garrison property
         77
O-38-77  10-11- Contiguous territory on the southwest corporation line, the Hamm property
         77
O-39-77  10-11- Contiguous territory on the southwest corporation line, the Walling property
         77
O-43-77  11-1-  Contiguous territory on the north corporation line, the Nantz property
         77
O-45-77  12-14- Annexing territory lying on the east side of Turfway Road (Booth Hospital)
         77
O-10-78  4-11-  Contiguous territory on the southwest corporation line, the Church of God
         78     property
O-13-78  4-25-  Contiguous territory on the northeast corporation line, the Booth Hospital
         78     property
O-30-78  9-12-  Contiguous territory on the west corporation line, the Kelly Subdivision
         78     property
O-31-78  9-12-  Contiguous territory on the west, south, and east corporation line, U.S. Highway
         78     42
O-3-79   1-23-  Contiguous territory on the southwest corporation line, the Kelley Estate
         79     property
O-26-79  9-11-  Contiguous territory on the north and west corporation line, the Caseldine
         79     property
O-42-80  1-13-  Territory located on the east side of Kentucky Highway No. 1018 (Hopeful Road)
         81     approximately 6/10 mile south of Kentucky Highway No. 18
O-25-81  5-5-81 Annexing the following two parcels of real property.
                (A)   Territory contiguous to the existing city limits on all sides, and located
              on the west side of I-75, the north side of U.S. 42, and the east side of Mall
                Road.
              (B)   A tract being contiguous to the existing city limits on all sides and
                lying on the west side of Mall Road.
O-50-81  12-22- Unincorporated territory lying along or near Pleasant Valley Road being
         81     contiguous to the present corporated city limits.
O-1-82   1-26-  Unincorporated territory lying along or near Houston Road and Turfway Road being
         82     contiguous to the present corporated city limits.
O-2-82   1-26-  Unincorporated territory lying along or near Kentucky 18 and Houston Road being
         82     contiguous to the present corporated city limits.
O-5-82   2-23-  Unincorporated territory lying along or near Evergreen Drive at its intersection
         82     with U.S. Highway 42, being contiguous to the present corporate city limits.
O-13-82  5-11-  Unincorporated territory situated on the easterly side of Hopeful Road
         82     approximately one mile south of Kentucky Route 18.
O-25-82  -29-82 Unincorporated territory lying on the northeast side of Turfway Road and being
                contiguous to the present northwesterly corporation line of the city.
O-33-82  9-2-82 Unincorporated territory situated about 500 feet south of Cayton Road at a point
                0.4 miles west of its intersection with Hopeful Road.
O-43-82  11-23- Lot 37 of the Shamrock Hills Subdivision.
         82
O-4-83   1-25-  Unincorporated territory situated on the easterly side of LaCresta Road, being
         83     Lot 6 of Shamrock Hill Subdivision.
O-39-83  12-20- Annexing part of the City of Union beginning at a point on the southeast right-
         83     of-way line of U.S. 42 being the west corner of the Erpenbeck property.
O-8-85   3-12-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the northwest quadrant of the
         85     intersection of Burlington Pike and Houston Road.
         9-10-  Annexing a certain tract of land situated near the city beginning at the point
O-31-85  85     of intersection of the northerly right-of-way line of Industrial Highway and the
                westerly right-of-way line of U.S. Route 25.
O-27-87  7-14-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory described in Exhibits "A" and "B",
         87     which are attached and incorporated herein by reference.
         8-11-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located on Goodridge Drive described
O-34-87  87     in Exhibit "A" and Exhibit "B", which are attached to Ord. O-34-87 and
                incorporated herein by reference.
         8-11-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located at 7430 Industrial Road
O-35-87  87     described in Exhibit "A" which is attached to Ord. O-35-87 and incorporated
                herein by reference.
O-36-87  8-11-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located at 7609 Mall Road described in
         87     Exhibit "A" which is attached to Ord. O-36-87 incorporated herein by reference.
         8-11-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located at the northern end of Yealey
O-37-87  87     Drive described in Exhibit "A" and Exhibit "B" which are attached to Ord. O-37-
                87 and incorporated herein by reference.
O-42-87  9-19-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located near the northwest corner of
         87     Hopeful Road and Ashcraft Drive.
O-5-88   3-22-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory described in Exhibits "A" and "B",
         88     which are attached to Ord. O-5-88 and incorporated herein by reference.
         9-27-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located on the northeasterly side of
O-25-88  88     Kentucky 18 near its intersection with Houston Road and adjacent to the present
                northwesterly city limits.
O-31-88  11-22- Annexing certain unincorporated territory located on the northerly side of U.S.
         88     Highway 42, adjacent to the present westerly city limits.
         12-21- Annexing certain unincorporated territory located generally west of I-75 and
O-35-88  88     northeast of the U.s. 42/45 Connector Road (the Old Kentucky Raceway Site)
                adjacent to the present westerly city limits.
         3-28-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located generally west of Hopeful
O-10-89  89     Road, south of Cayton Lane and north of Pleasant Valley Road, being part of the
                Stonegate Meadows Subdivision.
         3-28-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located at 8151 Burlington Pike
O-11-89  89     described in Exhibit "A" which is attached to Ord. O-11-89 and incorporated
                herein by reference.
O-14-89  4-11-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located generally on the north side of
         89     Old U.S. 42 and east of Farmview Drive.
         9-12-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory located at 8494 Pleasant Valley Road
O-25-89  89     described in Exhibit "A" which is attached to Ord. O-25-89 and incorporated
                herein by reference.
O-29-89  10-24- Annexing certain unincorporated territory located generally on U.S. 42 south of
         89     Weaver Road, being the Budig property.
O-30-89  10-24- Annexing certain unincorporated territory located in Boone Valley Estates
         89     Subdivision, Section VI, Lot 37.
O-32-90  12-11- Annexing certain territory located on the southwesterly side of Kentucky Highway
         90     842 (Weaver Road).
O-21-91  9-10-  Annexing certain territory located north of Valley View Drive, being the
         91     Schneider property.
O-22-91  9-10-  Annexing certain territory located at the end of Valley View Drive, south of
         91     Pleasant Valley Road, being the Kahmann Property.
O-23-91  9-10-  Annexing certain territory located at the end of Cayton Road, being the property
         91     of Arlinghaus Builders, Inc.
O-24-91  9-10-  Annexing certain territory located on Valley View Drive, south of Pleasant
         91     Valley Road, being the Butler property.
         10-8-  Annexing certain territory adjacent to the city limits on the westerly side
O-29-91  91     located along or near United States Highway 42, being the property of Frank J.
                Schwartz and Virginia T. Schwartz.
O-30-91  10-8-  Annexing certain territory located at the end of Valley View Drive, south of
         91     Pleasant Valley Road, being the Kahmann property.
O-31-91  10-8-  Annexing certain territory located at the end of Cayton Road West, being the
         91     property of Arlinghaus Builders, Inc.
O-32-91  10-8-  Annexing certain territory located on Valley View Drive, south of Pleasant
         91     Valley Road, being the Butler property.
O-33-91  10-8-  Annexing certain territory located along Kentucky 18 near its intersection with
         91     Ridge Road, being the Conrad property.
         10-22- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 7.56 acres
O-38-91  91     located on the south side of Turfway Road, west of Houston Road, adjacent to the
                city limits.
         10-22- Annexing territory adjacent to the existing city limits on the southerly side
O-40-91  91     located along or near Interstate Highway I-75, the territory being in connection
                with the expansion of rest areas on Interstate I-75.
O-42-91  11-26- Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 10 acres located
         91     along or near U.S. Highway 42.
         11-26- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 7.56 acres
O-43-91  91     located on the south side of Turfway Road, west of Houston Road, adjacent to the
                city limits.
O-45-91  11-26- Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 3.4 acres located on
         91     U.S. 42 in Sugar Tit subdivision.
O-46-91  11-26- Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 41.2 acres located
         91     along or near Interstate Highway I-75.
O-50-91  1-14-  Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 3.4 acres located at
         92     U.S. 42 of Sugar Tit subdivision.
O-2-92   1-21-  Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 30.9 acres located
         92     north of Valley View Drive.
O-3-92   1-28-  Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 113.858 acres located
         92     generally near the intersections of Turfway Road with I-75 and Houston Road.
O-8-92   4-14-  Annexing territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 113.858 acres located
         92     generally near the intersections of Turfway Road with I-75 and Houston Road.
O-32-92  1-12-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 21 acres
         93     located on the northwesterly side of Houston Road, (St. Luke Hospital, Inc.).
         8-10-  Annexing certain territory consisting of the balance of a parcel of
O-19-93  93     approximately 20.4142 acres located southwesterly of Connector Drive adjacent to
                the city limits (Chelsea Moore Property).
         11-9-  Annexing a parcel of land lying on the east side of I-75 and adjacent to the
O-32-93  93     city limits, beginning at a point being 150 feet right of centerline sta 600+73
                (I-75) containing 6.97 acres.
         11-9-  Annexing a parcel of land lying on the northeasterly side of Turfway Road and
O-33-93  93     adjacent to the northeasterly city limits, beginning at a point in the
                northeasterly right-of-way line of Turfway Road consisting of 11.6 acres.
O-20-94  8-23-  Annexing the property of Charles and Eileen Deglow, 986 Burlington Pk. and 5984
         94     Greenview Rd.
O-23-94  9-6-94 Annexing certain territories described as follows:
                (1)   On the east side of Kentucky Route 237 (Pleasant Valley Road) and the
              North side of Toll Road; beginning at an iron pin in the East right-of-way of
                Kentucky Route 237 and a corner to a 8.875 acre tract of Riegler Properties
                containing 9.224 acres.
                (2)   0.15 miles East of Kentucky Route 237 (Pleasant Valley Road and North of
              the Old Toll Road); beginning at an iron pin being the Northeast corner of a
                9.2240 acre tract of the Florence United Methodist Church and in the line of the
                Riegler Properties containing 3.000 acres.
                (3)   0.15 miles East of Kentucky Route 237 (Pleasant Valley Road on the North
              side of Old Toll Road); beginning at a P.K. Nail in the the center of Old Toll
                Road and a corner to Richard Coyne containing 2.8307 acres.
         9-19-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.274 acres
O-17-95  95     located generally on the north side of U.S. 42, bordering on Farmview Estates,
                south of and adjacent to the city limits.
         2-13-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 47.1 acres
O-25-95  96     located on Valley View Drive, Meadow View Drive and Sky View Drive, South of
                Pleasant Valley Road, adjacent to the city limits.
         3-26-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 13.6 acres
O-2-96   96     located in the Northwesterly quadrant of the intersection of U.S. 42 and
                Pleasant Valley Road, adjacent to the city limits.
                Annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 3.97 acres located on the
O-3-96   4-2-96 easterly side of Weaver Road, the southerly side of U.S. 42, and the westerly
                side of Evergreen Drive, adjacent to the city limits. (Grammas Property)
         4-30-  Annexing to the city certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately
O-5-96   96     47.1 acres located on Valley View Drive, Meadow View Drive and Sky View Drive,
                south of Pleasant Valley Road, adjacent to the city limits.
O-7-96   5-14-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 4.62 acres
         96     located on the southeasterly side of Hopeful Road, adjacent to the city limits.
         8-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 7.87 acres
O-16-96  96     located on the east side of interstate highway 75, between the interstate and
                Industrial Road, adjacent to the city limits.
         12-17- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.583 acres
O-30-96  96     located on the east side of Turfway Road and the northwest side of I-75,
                adjacent to the city limits.
O-20-97  10-28- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.6192 acres
         97     located on the westerly side of Hopeful Road, adjacent to the city limits.
O-21-97  10-28- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately ten acres
         97     located on Pleasant Valley Road, adjacent to city limits (Rolfsen Property).
         3-10-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 27.498 acres
O-2-98   98     located at 7435 Industrial Road, adjacent to city limits (American Trading and
                Production Corporation Property).
         11-24- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.15 acres
O-17-98  98     located on Utterback Branch Road, adjacent to the city limits and changing the
                zoning classification of such territory to R1F (Luebbers-Butler Property).
         1-12-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 23.32 acres
O-30-98  99     located on Hopeful Road, Hopeful Church Road, and Clayton Road, adjacent to the
                city limits (Cayton Development, LLC).
         4-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 34.257 acres
O-5-99   99     located at the intersection of Merchants Street and Bankers Street, adjacent to
                the city limits (Durr/Crist Property).
         10-12- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 366 acres
O-24-99  99     along Longbranch Road and Fowler Creek Road and adjacent to the western boundary
                of the city.
         4-11-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 31.5 acres
O-08-00  00     and a parcel of approximately 12 acres located west of I-75 along Weaver Road
                and Sunnybrook Drive, adjacent to the city limits (Flaig Property)
         4-24-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 197.0904
O-06-01  01     acres located at 7500 Turfway Road, adjacent to the city limits (Turfway Park
                property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of parcels of approximately 0.8546 acres
O-11-01  8-28-  and approximately 3.495 acres located west of Longbranch Road approximately 0.5
         01     mile west of U.S. Highway 42, Adjacent to the city limits (Grand Communities,
                LTD.).
         8-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.1148 acres
O-12-01  01     located at 8534 U.S. 42 and Old Toll Road, adjacent to the city limits (Toll
                Road Properties, LLC).
         8-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.1 acres
O-13-01  01     located at 8526 U.S. 42, Adjacent to the city limits (Peoples Bank of Northern
                Kentucky, Inc. Property).
O-14-01  8-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 8 acres
         01     located on Hopeful Road, adjacent to the city limits (Luebbers Property).
         11-27- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 7417.7 square
O-21-01  01     feet, located at 2042 Longbranch Road, adjacent to city limits (Gripshover
                property).
         3-26-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a two parcels of approximately 1.4
O-04-02  02     acres located along the north side of Hopeful Road and the southwesterly side of
                hopeful road connector, adjacent to the city limits (Cayton Development LLC).
         6-25-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 9.791 acres
O-15-02  02     located on the southeast side of U.S. Highway 42 and the northeast side of
                gunpowder road, adjacent to the city limits (Wentz Property).
         10-8-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.41 acres
O-23-02  02     located on the east side of Longbranch Road, adjacent to the city limits
                (Cisneros property).
         10-15- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 5.903 acres
O-24-02  02     located on the southwest side of Longbranch County Road and the Northwest side
                of U.S. Highway 42, adjacent to the city limits (Humphreys Property).
         10-15- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 5.02 acres
O-25-02  02     located on the northeast side of Longbranch Road and the east side of Camp Ernst
                Road, adjacent to the city limits (Mathew property).
         11-12- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 5.41 acres
O-27-02  02     located on the west side of U.S. Highway 42, along Longbranch Road, adjacent to
                the city limits (Baker Property).
         8-19-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 16.845 acres
O-04-03  03     located on the south side of Kentucky Highway 18 approximately 270 feet
                southeast of Ridge Road, adjacent to the city limits (Jeff Wyler property).
         2-24-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately .29 acres
O-25-03  03     located on the west side of Pleasant Valley Road, adjacent to the city limits
                (Steele property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately .28 acres
O-26-03  2-24-  located on the west side of Pleasant Valley Road, approximately 8/10 of a mile
         03     west of its intersection with U.S. Highway 42, adjacent to the city limits (Rice
                Property).
         10-21- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 8 acres
O-27-03  03     located on the east side of Hopeful Road, adjacent to the city limits (Durr/
                Crist Property).
         3-16-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 15.3 acres
O-29-03  04     located on the north side of Clarkson Lane, West of U.S. Highway 42, adjacent to
                the city limits (Grand Communities, LTD/Martin property).
         3-16-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 14.9816 acres
O-30-03  04     located on the west of Fowler creek Road and east of St. Louis Boulevard,
                adjacent to the city limits (Calhoun property).
         11-11- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 28.57 acres
O-31-03  04     located on the north side of Clarkson Lane, west of U.S. Highway 42, adjacent to
                the city limits (Martin property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 21.1 acres
O-06-04  3-9-04 located on the east side of gunpowder Road, adjacent to the city limits (Wilson/
                Harvey/Genever property).
         3-23-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.26 acre
O-09-04  04     located on the south side of Old Toll Road, adjacent to the city limits (Jackman
                property).
         4-20-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 11.1997 acres
O-10-04  04     located at 7906 Dixie Highway (U.S. 25), adjacent to the city limits (Insight
                property).
         4-20-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 4.3 acres
O-11-04  04     located at 9066 Gunpowder Road, adjacent to the city limits (Good Shepherd
                Lutheran church Property).
O-14-04  5-25-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 20 acres
         04     located at 9108 Gunpowder Road, adjacent to the city limits (Elder property).
O-15-04  5-25-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.838 acres
         04     located at 9146 Gunpowder Road, adjacent to the city limits (Robinson property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 13.88 acres
O-17-04  6-8-04 located on the northwesterly side of U.S. Highway #42, south of Farmview Drive,
                adjacent tot he city limits (Bowman/Terrace Development Company property).
O-29-04  11-9-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 3.8758 acres
         04     located at 2138 Clarkston Lane, adjacent to the city limits (Richter property).
O-34-04  12-21- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.24 acres
         04     located at 2397 Longbranch Road, adjacent to the city limits (Reeves property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.51 acres
O-8-05   5-31-  located on the northwest side of U.S. Highway 42 about 3.6 miles southwest of
         05     its intersection with U.S. highway 25, adjacent to the city limits. (Terrace
                Development Company, LLC Property).
O-16-05  7-26-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1 acre
         05     located at 9172 Gunpowder Road, adjacent to the city limits (Wagner Property).
         9-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 33.8082 acres
O-5-05   05     located on the west side of Hopeful Church Road, adjacent to the city limits
                (Anhofer Family Limited Partnership property).
         9-13-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 4.655 acres
O-9-05   05     located on the east side of U.S. Highway 42 at its intersection with Old Toll
                Road, adjacent to the city limits (Baluyot property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 7.451 acres
O-27-05  11-8-  located east of I-75, south of Mt. Zion Road, generally between Sherwood Lakes
         05     Drive and Investment Way, adjacent to the city limits (Sports of All Sorts,
                Inc./DGHK Realty, LLC.).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately .215 acre, a
O-3-06   2-28-  part of Lots 32 and 33 of Dilcrest Manor Subdivision, Section II, located at 15
         06     N. Dilcrest Drive, adjacent to the city limits (The Dr. Lawrence and Lois Payne
                property).
         4-25-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.3074 acres
O-8-06   06     located along Sunnybrook Drive, south of its intersection with Weaver Road,
                adjacent to the city limits (SMI-Sunnybrook, LLC, property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2,851 acres
O-18-06  1-29-  located on the northeasterly side of Turfway Road, approximately 0.28 miles
         06     northwest of Hansel Drive, adjacent to the city limits (Kentucky Wayturf LLC/
                Northern Kentucky Association of Realtors, Inc. property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 9.71 acres
O-33-06  6-12-  located on the southwesterly side of Weaver Road (Kentucky Highway 842), the
         07     southeast side of Ridgeview Drive and the northeast side of Evergreen Drive,
                adjacent to the city limits (Banklick Holdings Ltd. Co. property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 3.501 acres
O-7-     8-5-08 located on the northwest side of U.S. Highway 42, northeast of Kentucky Highway
08           237, adjacent to the city limits (Yoder/Paul Hemmer Development Company IV, LLC
                property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.79 acres
O-25-07  4-28-  located on the south side of Cayton Road and the northwest side of Hopeful
         08     Church Road, adjacent to the city limits (Pentagon Management, Inc./Cayton
                Development, LLC property).
         10-13- Annexing certain territory consisting a parcel of approximately 11.05 acres
O-14-09  09     located on the north side of Clarkston Lane and West of Old U.S. Highway 42,
                adjacent to the city limits (Mersch Property).
         12-21- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.50 acres
O-15-10  10     located on the east terminus of Doering Drive, north of Houston Road, adjacent
                to the city limits.
O-6-11   6-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of Lot 4 of the Hamilton Resubdivision
         11     located at 8522 U.S. 42, adjacent to the city limits (Haarman Property).
         9-13-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a 1.2973 acre parcel located along the
O-16-11  11     southwest line of the New South Airfield Connector Road, adjacent to the city
                limits (Crist Property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 17.74 acres
O-9-12   7-10-  being a portion of the existing right-of-way of interstate 71/75 lying west of
         12     the Boone/Kenton County line and east of the existing Florence city boundary
                adjacent to the boundary of the city.
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 17.74 acres
O-17-12  10-9-  being a portion of the existing right-of-way of interstate 71/75 lying west of
         12     the Boone/Kenton County line and east of the existing city boundary adjacent to
                the boundary of the city.
                Annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 1.3425 acres located at
O-2-     4-16-  the terminus of Utterback Road approximately 130 feet west of Hopeful Church
13    13     Road, and to the immediate north and east of the properties at 8820 and 8830
                Boone Valley Drive, adjacent to the city limits (Butler Property).
         3-11-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.61 acres
O-20-13  14     located on the northeast side of Ted Bushelman Boulevard, northwest of Houston
                Road, adjacent to the city limits (FOLTZ/LPF Corporation).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately .899 acres
         1-13-  located on the northeast side of Gunpowder Road, southeast of U.S. Highway 42,
O-21-14  15     adjacent to the city limits (parcel 1); and a parcel of 4.392 acres located on
                the northeast side of Gunpowder Road, southeast of U.S. Highway 42, adjacent to
                the city limits (parcel 2) ( Gunpowder Properties/Morgan).
O-1-     1-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.158 acres
15    15     located at the terminus of Boone Valley Drive and east of Heritage Drive,
                adjacent to the city limits (Ryan Property).
         7-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.661 acre
O-11-15  15     located north of Chancellor Court and West of Hopeful Church Road, adjacent to
                the city limits (Decastro Property).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 177.402 acres
O-17-15  11-17- located on the south side of Aero Parkway, the east and west side of Ted
         15     Bushelman Boulevard and the northeast side of Edgehill Road, adjacent to the
                city limits (Kenton County Airport Board).
         2-28-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 1.26 acres
O-2-17   17     located on the southwest side of Pleasant Valley Road (Kentucky Highway 237),
                approximately 600 feet northwest of Valley View Drive.
         10-30- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.271 acres
O-12-18  18     located west of the intersection of W. Dilcrest and N. Dilcrest, adjacent to the
                city limits (Thomas Stith Property).
         11-24- Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.735 acres
O-11-20  20     located at 6136 Hopeful Church Road, adjacent to the city limits (Decastro
                Management, LLC).
         4-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of approximately 272.025 acres lying on
O-2-21   21     the northeast side of Houston Road, the southwest side of Donaldson Highway, and
                the southeast side of Turfway Road (Vinings Trace, LLC).
                Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 23.0348 acres
O-5-21   9-14-  located at the northeastwardly right-of-way of Weaver Road, approximately 20
         21     feet southwest of Morgan Trace Drive within the Saddlebrook subdivision (Weaver
                Road Properties, LLC).
         5-10-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 2.391 acres
O-6-22   22     located at the southwest intersection of Kentucky Highway 1829 (Industrial Road)
                and U.S. Highway 25 (Dixie Highway) (Holland Dixie Development, LLC).
O-8-22   5-24-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.584 acres
         22     located on the northwesterly side of Old Toll Road (BCBC, LLC).
O-16-22  8-23-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 0.8574 acres
         22     located at 919 Weaver Road (Fullerton).
         2-27-  Annexing certain territory consisting of two parcels of approximately 1.194
O-3-2024 24     acres and 4.127 acres located at 1 Gridiron Lane (Boone County Pee Wee Athletic
                Association, Inc.).
O-16-    12-4-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 18.8473 acres
2024     24     located on the east side of Gunpowder Road (BBB Developers, LLC/KPD Holdings,
                LLC Property).
               
 
TABLE II: ACCEPTANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-374-57 6-11-57     A portion of lot 68 of Grandview Heights Subdivision
O-382-57 12-3-57     Lot 37 of the Fairfield Subdivision
O-15-58  12-9-58     Part of Burk Avenue
O-16-58  12-9-58     Part of Wallace Avenue
O-17-58  12-9-58     Part of Arm Street
O-18-58  12-9-58     Part of Shenandoah Avenue
O-19-58  12-9-58     Part of Roberta Street
O-51-59  11-10-59    Portion of Ann Street
O-56-59  12-8-59     Glenn Street and Roberta Avenue
O-9-82   2-23-82     Portion of Price Pike; portion of Curtis Avenue
O-36-84  11-27-84    Steinberg Drive
O-53-81  1-12-82     Price Pike
                    
 
TABLE III: BOND ISSUES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-96-61   1961        Great Lakes Carbon Corporation, Inc.
O-153-63  6-15-63     Carbon Web Corporation building
O-173-64  1-14-64     Amendment to Ord. 96 (Great Lakes Carbon Corporation,
                      Inc.)
O-180-64  2-25-64     Extension to Great Lakes Carbon plant
O-184-64  3-30-64     Husky Products Company building
O-197-64  8-27-64     Equitable Paper Bag Company building
O-221-65  4-20-65     American Sign Industries Inc. building
O-233-65  7-28-65     Levi Strauss & Company building
O-258-66  1966        Authorize merger of Great Lakes Carbon Corporation with
                      General Refractories Corporation (Grefco)
O-263-66  5-25-66     Queen City Dinettes, Inc. building
O-267-66  7-5-66      Superior Furniture Manufacturing Company
O-285-66  11-9-66     Industrial building revenue bonds
O-306-67  5-24-67     Equitable Bag Company, Inc.
O-307-67  6-14-67     Expansion of American Sign Industries, Inc.
O-322-67  10-3-67     Arrow-Hart and Hegeman Electric Company
O-323-67  10-10-67    American Book Company project
O-324-67  10-10-67    Hewitt - Robins, Inc.
O-325-67  10-25-67    Globe Union, Inc.
O-328-67  11-15-67    Interchemical Corporation
I-0-4-73  1973        Hopple Plastics
O-7-74    3-26-74     Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky general obligation
                      bonds
I-0-4-81  11-10-81    FPB Investment Co. project
O-29-82   7-27-82     Bob Sumerel Tire Company to assist in financing
                      commercial facilities
O-35-82   9-16-82     Financing the costs of acquisition of a project to be
                      leased to Keco Industries, Inc.
O-45-82   12-21-82    Medical Enterprises to assist in financing commercial
                      facilities
                      Authorizing the issuance of $18,230,000 of residential
O-19-83   6-28-83     facilities revenue bonds for the North River Retirement
                      Center project
                      Authorizing the issuance of $700,000 of industrial
O-36-83   10-11-83    development revenue bonds for the Robert Kratz project to
                      assist in the financing of a medical office facility
                      Authorizing the issuance of $775,000 of industrial
O-3-84    4-14-84     building revenue bonds in order to assist LARVAN in the
                      financing of new commercial facilities
                      Authorizing the issuance of $900,000 of industrial
O-40-84   12-18-84    building revenue bonds for the Tappan and Tappan project
                      to assist in the financing of a commercial building
                      facility
                      Relating to the authorization of the issuance of $500,000
O-7-85    3-12-85     of economic development revenue bonds for the Miracle
                      dental project for financing a dental office, clinic and
                      laboratory
O-30-85   8-27-85     Issuance of $3,800,000 of industrial building revenue
                      bonds for Swallen's Inc. project
O-38-85   12-3-85     Issuance of $300,000 of industrial building revenue bonds
                      for American Sign and Marketing Services, Inc. project
                      Authorizing the issuance of $4,500,000 industrial
O-37-85   13-3-85     building revenue bonds to assist Florence Center
                      Associates, in the financing of new commercial
                      facilities.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $1,300,000 industrial
O-38-85   12-3-85     building revenue bonds to finance the acquisition,
                      renovation and equipping of an industrial building for
                      use as a commercial facility.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $3,280,000 industrial
O-39-85   12-3-85     building revenue bonds to finance the acquisition,
                      construction and equipping of an industrial building for
                      use as a commercial building.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $800,000 industrial building
O-41-85   12-17-85    revenue bonds to finance the acquisition, construction
                      and equipping of an industrial building for use as a
                      hotel and motel.
O-14-86   5-27-86     Issuance and sale of bonds to provide a fund for the
                      public improvement of Hollywood Drive and Anchor Way.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $2,000,000 adjustable rate
O-28-86   10-29-86    industrial building revenue bonds to finance the
                      acquisition, construction, installation, equipping and
                      medical office, health care and related facilities.
                      Issuance of economic development revenue bonds in the
O-35-86   12-9-86     amount not to exceed $3,100,000 for the Signature X Ltd.
                      Project.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $1,000,000 six-month demand
                      adjustable rate industrial building revenue bonds, to
O-36-86   12-17-86    finance the acquisition, construction, installation and
                      equipping of an industrial building suitable for use as
                      healthcare and related facilities.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $4,300,000 industrial
                      building revenue bonds to finance the acquisition,
O-37-86   12-18-86    construction, installation and equipping of an industrial
                      building suitable for use as a hotel and motel and
                      related facilities.
                      Issuance of and authority the approval of $2,137,500
                      public properties corporation bond anticipation notes and
O-38-86   12-18-86    covenanting with the holders of the bond anticipation
                      notes to use its best effort to cause bonds or renewal
                      notes of the corporation to be issued to pay the notes at
                      or prior to maturity.
                      Authorizing the amendment of ordinance No. 0-38-85
                      authorizing the issuance of $1,300,000 industrial
O-7-87    3-24-87     building revenue bonds to finance the acquisition,
                      renovation and equipping of an industrial building
                      located for use as a commercial facility.
                      Authorizing the execution and delivery of a first
                      supplemental trust indenture relating to the issuance of
8-8-87    4-14-87     $2,000,000 adjustable rate industrial building revenue
                      bonds to finance the acquisition, construction,
                      installation and equipping of an industrial building for
                      use as a medical office building.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $3,275,000 industrial
                      building revenue refunding bonds to refund and retire the
O-10-87   5-12-87     $3,300,000 industrial building revenue bonds which were
                      issued to finance the acquisition, construction,
                      installation and equipping of an industrial building
                      located within the city.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $7,500,000 aggregate
O-18-87   7-14-87     principal amount of housing facilities revenue bonds to
                      assist in the financing of a facility designed to provide
                      housing for the aged.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $3,250,000 industrial
                      building refunding revenue bonds, to assist Florence
O-4-88    2-23-88     Commercial in the refunding of industrial building
                      revenue bonds and authorizing the issuance of additional
                      bonds.
                      Authorizing certain amendments to the $900,000 industrial
                      building revenue bonds loaned to Tappan and Tappan to
O-8-88    5-24-88     finance the acquisition, construction, installation and
                      equipping of an industrial building facility for use as a
                      commercial building.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $3,380,000 revenue bonds, to
O-9-88    6-14-88     assist Florence Center Associates in the refunding of
                      industrial building revenue bonds and authorizing the
                      issuance of additional bonds.
                      Authorizing the execution and delivery of a first
                      supplemental trust indenture and loan agreement relating
O-33-88   12-13-88    to the issuance of $7,000,000 housing facility revenue
                      bonds to assist in the financing of an industrial
                      building facility to provide housing for the aged.
                      Authorizing the appointment of the Fifth Third Bank as
O-16-90   7-23-90     successor trustee and paying agent pursuant to a loan
                      agreement and mortgage wherein $500,000 of industrial
                      development revenue bonds was issued.
                      Authorizing the appointment of the Fifth Third Bank as
O-17-90   7-24-90     successor trustee and paying agent pursuant to a local
                      agreement and bond purchase agreement $700,000 industrial
                      revenue bonds was issued.
                      Authorizing the appointment of the Fifth Third Bank as
O-19-90   8-28-90     successor trustee and paying agent pursuant to a loan
                      agreement and mortgage wherein $800,000 of industrial
                      building revenue bonds was issued.
O-30-90   11-27-90    Authorizing and approving $3,005,000 multiple project
                      revenue bond anticipation notes.
                      Authorizing and approving $4,500,000 mortgage revenue
O-33-90   12-22-90    bond anticipation notes for the construction and
                      acquisition of recreational and related facilities.
                      Authorizing and approving the issuance and sale of
                      $4,710,000 first mortgage revenue bonds for the
O-3-91    2-12-91     acquisition, improvement and financing of certain public
                      facilities, including certain real property and
                      recreational facilities.
O-5-92    3-10-92     Approving amendment and supplement to the trust indenture
                      between the city and Indiana National Bank.
                      Providing for the financing of the costs of refunding in
                      advance of maturity an issue of $3,060,000 Sewer Revenue
                      Bonds; authorizing the issuance of the city's $2,850,000
                      "Sanitary Sewerage System Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
O-9-92    4-14-92     1992;" making provisions for the collection, segregation,
                      distribution and disbursement of the revenues; setting
                      forth conditions and restrictions under which additional
                      bonds may be issued in the future, payable from revenues
                      and ranking on a basis of parity; and providing for a
                      sale of said 1992 bonds.
O-11-92   4-28-92     Authorizing and approving the issuance and sale of
                      $4,000,000 first mortage revenue bonds.
O-15-92   5-19-92     Authorizing the issuance of $4,380,000 industrial
                      building refunding revenue bonds.
                      Authorizing second supplemental loan agreement and
                      indenture of trust relating to outstanding housing fac-
O-29-92   11-24-92    ilities revenue bond (Bluegrass RHF Housing, Inc.
                      Project) the proceeds of which were loaned to finance the
                      industrial building for use a health care or related
                      facilities.
                      Authorizing the amendment of terms of the $4,380,000
                      variable rate demand Industrial Revenue Bonds, series
O-25-96   11-19-96    1988 of the city (Florence Center Associates Project),
                      dated June 1, 1988 including authorizing a supplemental
                      trust indenture and appropriate revisions to the bond
                      form.
                      Directing the city's Public Properties Corporation to
                      take certain formal actions as the agency and
O-5-97    2-18-97     instrumentality and as the constituted authority of the
                      city; authorizing the issuance of First Mortgage Revenue
                      Bonds (Administrative Office Complex Project) Series
                      1997.
                      Authorizing the issuance of Adjustable Rate Industrial
                      Building Revenue Bonds, Series 1997 (ROJAC, LLC/Impak
                      Graphics, Inc. Project), of the city in an aggregate
                      principal amount not to exceed $4,200,000, the proceeds
                      of which shall be loaned to ROJAC, LLC and Impak Graphics
O-12-97   5-20-97     Inc. to finance the acquisition, construction,
                      installation and equipping of an industrial building to
                      be located within the city for use in an activity,
                      business or industry for the manufacturing, processing or
                      assembling of a commercial product; authorizing the
                      issuance of additional bonds.
                      Authorizing the issuance of Housing Facilities Revenue
                      and Refunding Bonds (Bluegrass RHF Housing, Inc.), 1997
                      Series A of the city in an aggregate principal amount not
O-13-97   5-20-97     to exceed $10,000,000, the proceeds of which shall be
                      loaned to Bluegrass RHF Housing Inc. to refund the Out-
                      standing Housing Facilities Revenue Bonds (Bluegrass RHF
                      Housing, Inc. Project) dated July 1, 1987 and for other
                      purposes; authorizing the issuance of additional bonds.
                      Authorizing and approving $2,510,000 (which amount may be
O-6-98    5-12-98     increased or decreased by an amount of up to $250,000)
                      First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series 1998.
                      Authorizing the issuance of Housing Facilities Revenue
O-18-99   10-5-99     Bonds Series 1999 (Bluegrass RHF Housing, Inc. Project)
                      of the city in an aggregate principal amount not to
                      exceed $9,400,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of up to $2,520,000 principal
O-26-99   11-23-99    amount of City of Florence, Kentucky adjustable rate
                      Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
                      1999.
                      Authorizing the issuance of First Mortgage Revenue Bond
O-12-00   5-30-00     Anticipation Notes, Series 2000 (Northern Kentucky Area
                      Development District Project) of the city in the
                      principal amount of $1,750,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of a Utilities Revenue Bond
O-17-01   10-23-01    Anticipation Note, Series 2001 in a principal amount up
                      to $2,300,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Public
O-06-02   4-30-02     Project Refunding Bonds Series 2002A and 2002B in the
                      respective aggregate principal amounts of $7,335,000 and
                      $2,665,000.
O-15-03   7-15-03     Authorizing the issuance of Water and Sewer Revenue
                      Bonds, series 2003.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Public
O-22-03   10-14-03    Project Bonds, Series 2003A and 2003B in the respective
                      aggregate principal amounts of $3,6100,000 and
                      $3,480,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Public
O-02-05   2-22-05     Project Refunding Bonds, Series 2005A in the aggregate
                      principal amount of $9,105,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Refunding
O-10-10   8-31-10     Bonds, Series 2010 in the aggregate principal amount of
                      $6,820,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Refunding
O-22-11   11-1-11     Bonds, Series 2011 in the aggregate principal amount of
                      $3,145,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of Water and Sewer Revenue
O-3-12    3-27-12     Refunding Bonds, Series 2012, in the aggregate principal
                      amount of $2,090,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of taxable General Obligation
O-4-12    3-27-12     Refunding Bonds, Series 2012 in the aggregate principal
                      amount of $2,545,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Bonds in
O-17-2013 11-12-13    one or more series, in an aggregate principal amount not
                      to exceed $2,400,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Refunding
O-5-2015  3-10-15     Bonds, Series 2015 in the aggregate Principal amount of
                      $6,335,000 (Subject to a permitted adjustment increasing
                      or decreasing the size of said bonds by up to $635,000).
                     
 
TABLE IV: CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVALS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
O-10-86  4-22-  Approval of the concept development plan of Bolton Land Co. for the Foltz
         86     property
O-15-86  7-8-86 Approval of the concept development plan of GBBN - Henne Development -
                Turfway Development
O-10-86  4-22-  Approving the concept development plan for a tract of land in immediate
         86     vicinity of the Turfway-Houston Road intersection.
                Approving the concept for a tract of land being the Carpenter-Brose-
O-15-86  7-8-86 Imfeld and Gemmer Tract near and in the immediate vicinity of the I-75
                Turfway Road interchange.
O-4-87   5-19-  Approving a change in concept development plan located on the east side
         87     of Industrial Road and south of Columbia Drive.
O-13-87  5-19-  Approving the development plan located on the east side of Dream Street.
         87
O-3-88   2-9-88 Approving a development plan located on a 2.57 acre tract generally near
                the intersection of Old Toll Road and U.S. 42.
         4-26-  Approving the Houston-Donaldson study and all of its provisions including
O-7-88   88     parcels located near or along a corridor involving Houston Road and
                Donaldson Highway.
O-12-88  6-28-  Approving a development located on a 0.5 acre tract located at the corner
         88     of Kentucky 18 and Glenn Street.
         12-20- Approving and adopting a revision to a previously approved concept
O-36-88  88     development plan located at the northeast quadrant of Hopeful Road and
                U.S. 42.
O-1-89   1-24-  Approving a development plan located on a 0.69 acre site generally on the
         89     north side of Kentucky 18 near its intersection with Utz Lane.
         2-14-  Approving and adopting a revision of a previously approved concept
O-4-89   89     development plan located on the west side of the New U.S. 25-42 Connector
                Road south of U.S. Highway 42.
O-5-89   2-14-  Approving a development plan located on a 0.5 acre site located at 3511
         89     U.S. Highway 42.
O-18-90  7-24-  Approving a revision of a previously approved concept development plan
         90     located off Cavalier Boulevard.
         11-12- Approving the utilization of an underlying zone and a planned development
O-41-91  91     zoning district for that portion on an 8.6 acre site located at the west
                corner of Turfway and Houston Road.
O-7-92   3-10-  Approving a concept development plan for utilization of the underlying
         92     zone for Saratoga Square subdivision consisting of an 11.29 acre site.
O-12-92  4-21-  Approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned development
         92     for a 1.5 acre site generally located off Old Toll Road.
         9-22-  Approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned development
O-25-92  92     for a 2.64 acre site generally located on Commerce Drive near its
                intersection with Kentucky 18.
O-9-93   4-27-  Approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned development
         93     for 0.5 acre site generally located on Burlington Pike.
         4-27-  Approving a change in a previously approved concept development plan for
O-10-93  93     utilization of an underlying zone for a 14.85 acre tract located at
                Thoroughbred Boulevard and Houston Road.
O-11-93  4-27-  Approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned development
         93     for a 7.4 acre site zoned as part of the Houston-Donaldson Study Area.
O-20-93  9-28-  Approving a change in a previously approved concept development plan for
         93     an 9.89 acre tract located at Turfway Road and Kentucky 18.
         1-11-  Approving a change in a previously approved concept development plan for
O-39-93  94     utilization of an underlying zone for a 27 acre tract located in the
                Houston Lakes Development.
                Approving a change in a previously approved concept development plan for
         1-25-  utilization of an underlying zone for a 21 acre tract located on the
O-1-94   94     northwesterly side of Houston Road partially in Florence and partially in
                an unincorporated area of Boone County and beginning at a point in the
                northwesterly right-of-way line of Houston Road.
                Approving a change in a previously approved concept development plan for
O-21-94  8-23-  utilization of an underlying zone for a 3.75 acre tract and a 1.23 acre
         94     tract located on the westerly side of Spiral Drive in Florence and
                beginning at a point in the westerly right-of-way line of Spial Drive.
         2-28-  Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-2-95   95     development for a .505 acre site zoned Office Two/Urban Residential One/
                Planned Development (O-2/UR-1/PD), located at 7710 U.S. 42.
         3-28-  Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-4-95   95     development for a 1.1 acre site zoned Commercial Two/Planned Development
                (C-2/PD), located at U.S. 42 and Old Toll Road.
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-7-95   6-6-95 development as a change in Concept Development Plan for a site zoned
                Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD), located at 25 Cavalier
                Boulevard.
         6-13-  Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-8-95   95     development for a 1.66 acre site on the south side of Burlington Pike
                near Utz Drive zoned Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD).
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in Planned
                Development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate
O-18-97  9-9-97 1.1 acre sites known as Lot 3, Saratoga Square Subdivision, generally
                located at the inter-section of Hansel Avenue and Turfway Road in the
                city to allow a motel in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD)
                Zone (Vinu J. Patel Property).
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
                development for an approximately 1.445 acre tract known as Lot 2, Houston
O-22-97  10-28- Lakes Subdivision, generally located at the southeast corner of Houston
         97     Road and Spiral Drive in the city, to allow a retail facility in an
                Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone
                (Pottschmidt-Northern Kentucky Management, Inc. Property).
                Adopting and approving a change in Concept Development Plan previously
         11-25- approved in a Planned Development Zone with conditions for a 0.65 acre
O-23-97  97     portion of a parcel located at 7891 Fantasy Frontier Drive in the city to
                allow a ferris wheel as a mechanized carnival type ride in a Commercial
                Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone (Bessler, Klensch, et al property).
         1-27-  Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-1-98   98     development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate 21
                acre site in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone.
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-5-98   4-28-  development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate
         98     11.16 acre site known as Lot 9, Turfway Commercial Park in an Office Two/
                Planned Development (O-2/PD) Zone.
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
         5-12-  development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate 11
O-7-98   98     acre site known as Lot 9, Turfway Commercial Park Subdivision, in an
                Office Two/Planned Development (O-2/PD) zone, this property being
                generally located on Cavalier Boulevard.
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for
O-9-98   6-9-98 approximately 10 acres located along the east side of Wetherington
                Boulevard, a portion of Plantation Pointe North in the city, for property
                zoned Residential Planned Development (RPD).
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
O-11-98  6-9-98 development based on a concept development plan submitted for an
                approximate 0.9 acre site located at 7635 Ewing Boulevard in the city,
                this site being zoned Office Two/Planned Development (O-2/PD).
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
         9-29-  development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate
O-19-98  98     3.08 acre site within Houston Lakes Subdivision, on part of remaining Lot
                No. 10, along Meijer Drive in the city, in an Office Two/Commercial Two/
                Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone.
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
         6-22-  development as a change in concept development plan to allow the
O-10-99  99     expansion of an existing outdoor garden area for the Walmart Store
                located at 4999 Houston Road in the city in a Commercial Two/Planned
                Development (C-2/PD) Zone.
                Adopting and approving the utilization of an underlying zone in planned
         6-15-  development as a change in concept development plan for an approximate
O-11-99  99     1.6 acre site located at 7828-7850 U.S. Highway 42 in the city in a
                Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) Zone to allow a building
                addition.
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
         12-21- approximate 1.1793 acre tract generally located on the northeast corner
O-30-99  99     of the intersection of Merchant Street/Bankers Street in the city to
                allow an automotive repair facility for this property currently zoned
                Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
         5-30-  approximate 1.6 acre tract at 7490 Woodspoint Drive to allow a Microtel
O-11-00  00     Hotel with appurtenances for this property currently zoned Commercial
                Service/Planned Development (C-3/PD), pursuant to a settlement of
                litigation. (John Bill Keck Property).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
                approximate 14.65 acre site located at 4949 Houston Road to allow an
O-13-00  6-6-00 expansion of the existing Sam's Club Store for property currently zoned
                Commercial Two/Planned Development C-2/PD). (Benson Capital Co. - Sam's
                Club Store property).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for a 2.79
                acre tract located on the south side of Kentucky 18, approximately 600
         8-10-  feet east of the Kentucky 18/Ewing Boulevard intersection and immediately
O-17-00  00     west of 7505 Kentucky 18, this property being currently zoned Office Two/
                Public Facilities/Planned Development (O-2/PF/PD), to allow an
                approximate 16,000 square foot building for use as a hair salon and
                college. (Bethesda Property, Inc. property).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for a 1.84
                acre tract generally located on the ease side of Dream Street,
O-22-00  12-5-  immediately north of property at 7928 Dream Street, this property being
         00     currently zoned Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) and
                being subject to the Parkway Corridor Study, to allow a restaurant,
                subject to agreed conditions. (James Gallenstein-Gregory Staley Property)
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for a 0.9689 acre tract
         11-27- generally located between U.S. 42 and Old Toll Road, Approximately 600
O-22-01  01     feet east of the Pleasant Valley Road/U.S. 42 intersection being
                currently zoned commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD)to allow a car
                wash.
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for the tract located
O-05-02  3-26-  at 7908 Dream Street, being currently zoned Commercial Services/Planned
         02     Development (C-3PD), to allow construction of a restaurant with drive-
                through window and an office building (Frisch’s Restaurants, Inc.)
         6-25-  Amending O-10-99 relating to zoning of property containing the Wal Mart
O-16-02  02     store located at 4999 Houston Road to remove the requirement for one-way
                traffic flow in the parking lot west of the garden center expansion.
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for an approximate 13
O-19-02  7-16-  acre site located at 7830 Commerce Drive, being currently zoned
         02     Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD), to allow car and truck
                sales, service and body shop (Tom Gill Chevrolet property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for an approximate 1.45
O-21-02  7-30-  acre site located at 8490 Old Toll Road, currently zoned Commercial Two/
         02     Planned Development (C- 2/PD),to expand a child care center (Malley Real
                Estate, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for an approximate one
O-26-02  10-15- acre site generally located on the north side of Bankers Street,
         02     immediately east of 8810 Bankers Street for use as a car wash (R.C. Durr
                and Richard Crist property).
         12-3-  Adopting and approving a concept plan for a 0.1892 acre sit that is zoned
O-30-02  02     Public Facilities/ Planned Development (PF/PD) located at 7766 Ewing
                Boulevard (Ewing Enterprises, LLC property)
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for approximately 15
O-06-03  3-11-  acres of the 197 acre Turfway Park site located at 7500 Turfway Road to
         03     allow temporary outdoor community events and displays (Turfway Park,
                LLC).
         8-26-  Adopting and approving a concept development plan for a 0.6 acre tract
O-18-03  03     located at 7673 Burlington Pike, to allow the redevelopment of the site
                to permit a restaurant (Waffle House).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for an approximate
         11-11- 1.337 acre site located at 7830 Tanners Lane being currently zoned
O-32-03  03     Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD), to allow an approximate
                1,000 square foot addition to an existing retail building. (Ohio Valley
                Goodwill Rehabilitation Center, Inc. property).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
O-03-04  2-3-04 approximate 0.5 acre site located at 8727 U.S. 42, currently zoned
                Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) to allow a bank (NATORP
                Garden Stores, Inc.)
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-23-04  6-22-  with conditions, in a Commercial Two (C-2) zone and commercial services
         04     (C-3) zone to allow retail sales and a retail pharmacy for a 1.435 acre
                site located at 6615 and 6617 Dixie Highway.
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan with conditions, in a
O-25-04  7-6-04 Commercial Two/Planned development (C-2/PD) zone to allow a multi-tenant
                commercial building for a 0.26 acre tract located at 8519 Old Toll Road.
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                for a 9.8 acre site, generally located on the north/west side of Houston
O-03-05  3-22-  Road, across Houston Road from the World of Sports Golf course and the
         05     Houston Road/Woodspoint Drive intersection currently zoned Commercial
                Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD), to allow the option of developing a
                multi- tenant retail building or single user commercial building.
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for 13.88
         5-31-  acre site located on the north side of U.S. Highway 42, across from the
O-10-05  05     U.S. 42/ Braxton intersection and the Boone County Library, Scheben
                Branch, and immediately east of the property at 8912 Old Union Road to
                allow building mounted, drive-thru, and menu board signage.
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
         7-26-  approximate 1.2 acre site generally located on the north side of U.S. 42,
O-17-05  05     immediately east of 8912 Old Union Road to allow two commercial buildings
                with drive-through facilities on separate lots (Terrace Development
                Company, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan for an
O-18-05  7-26-  approximate 1.7 acre site generally located on the west side of Merchants
         05     Street, approximately 140 feet north of the property at 5985 Merchants
                Street to allow an auto parts store.
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in a
                Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for an approximate 6.33
O-19-05  9-13-  acre site generally located on the east side of U.S. 42 at 8511 U.S. 42,
         05     and across U.S. 42 from 8510 U.S. 42 and the Old Toll Road intersection,
                Florence and unincorporated Boone County, Kentucky, to allow a multi-
                building commercial development (Paul Hemmer Development IV property).
                Adopting and approving a change in approved concept development plan for
                an approximate 1.2 acre site located on the north side of U.S. 42,
O-30-05  12-20- immediately east of the property at 8912 Old Union Road, Florence,
         05     Kentucky (Lot 4, Village Terrace Subdivision) to allow a second drive-
                through facility between two buildings on the site (Terrace Development
                Company, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan to allow for
         3-28-  an additional menu board sign for a drive-through restaurant for an
O-6-06   06     approximate 1.07acres site located at 8830 US Highway 42 in Florence,
                Kentucky, this property being currently zoned Union Commercial/Planned
                Development (UC-PD) (Tony Garcia/Sinkula Investments property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                for an approximately 6.5 acre site located at 7310 Turfway Road,
O-7-06   4-4-06 Florence, Kentucky, to allow a bank drive-through facility at the
                existing Turfway Ridge office development (BH Turfway, LLC c/o Neyer
                Management property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a Commercial Two/
O-16-06  8-8-06 Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 1.5 acre site located at 7570
                Burlington Pike, Florence, Kentucky, to allow for the redevelopment of
                the site (TED Richardson property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a Commercial
O-17-06  8-8-06 Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) Zone for a 1.48 acre site located
                at 7690 Burlington Pike, Florence, Kentucky, to allow a building addition
                (Speedway Super America LLC-Jack Harmon property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in an Office Two/
                Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone for a 4.8977 acre
                site located between the southeast side of Meijer Drive and I-75, and
                across from the Spiral Drive/Meijer Drive intersection to allow a fitness
         10-10- center; and Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept
O-25-06  06     development plan in an Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-
                2/C-2/PD) Zone for a 5.8624 acre site generally located between the
                southeast side of Meijer Drive and I-75, and south of the property at 350
                Meijer Drive, to allow an office building and a multi-tenant retail
                building (James W. Berling - Northern Kentucky Building Management, Inc.
                property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-28-06  12-12- in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 2.4158 acre
         06     site located at 4885 Houston Road to allow a monument sign (RNS
                Properties, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a Commercial
O-31-06  1-9-07 Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) Zone for a 2.399 acre site located
                at 7928 Dream Street, to allow an enclosed pool addition onto an existing
                hotel (Dunn/Shivam Hospitality, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in an Office One/Planned Development (O-1/PD) Zone for an 8.95 acre site
O-32-06  1-9-07 generally located in the terminus of Vandercar Way and to the west of the
                property at 7625 Doering Drive (Wal Mart) to allow a hotel, restaurants
                and other uses permitted in the current zoning (Vandercar Holdings
                property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 9.71 acre
                site located on the southwest side of Weaver Road across from Saddlebrook
O-11-07  6-12-  Lane, on the south and east sides of Evergreen Drive, to the northwest of
         07     the property at 957 Weaver Road, to the north and east of the property at
                8912 Evergreen Drive, and to the east of the properties at 8930 and 8940
                Evergreen Drive to allow commercial, retail and office uses (Noll
                Properties/Banklick Corp. property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-17-07  9-11-  in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C- 2/PD) Zone for a 2 acre site
         07     located at 7270 Burlington Pike, to allow retail, office, medical office,
                child care and restaurant uses (Anthony Hause property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in an Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone for
O-18-07  9-11-  a 5.8624 acre site generally located between the south/east side of
         07     Meijer Drive and I-75 and south/west to the property at 350 Meijer Drive
                to allow office, medical office, and retail buildings (James W. Berling -
                Turfway Commons, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         9-25-  in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a .90 acre site
O-21-07  07     located at 8526 U.S. 42, immediately to the south/west of the property at
                8522 U.S. 42, to allow a drive-through restaurant (Taco Bell of America,
                Inc. - The Bank of Kentucky property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         10-23- in an Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone for
O-23-07  07     a 1.98 acre portion of the 31.58 acre lot located at 4990 Houston Road
                (Meijer) to allow a multi-tenant commercial building (Midland Atlantic
                Properties - Meijer Stores Ltd. property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         2-26-  in an Office Two/Planned Development (O- 2/PD) Zone for a 2.65 acre site
O-2-08   08     located at 40 Cavalier Boulevard, to allow a hotel and modification to
                the Turfway Commercial Park special sign district requirements (Fire
                Mountain Restaurants, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         3-25-  in a Commercial Services (C-3) and Commercial Services/Planned
O-3-08   08     Development (C-3/PD) Zone for a 7.28 acre site located at 6920 Burlington
                Pike to allow a pharmacy drive-thru at the existing Remke Market (Chester
                Dix Florence Corp./Charles Kadish property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         6-24-  in an Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone for
O-12-18  08     a 4.8977 acre site located at 430 Meijer Drive to allow additional
                building mounted signage (Gerald F. Dusing/P&P Real Estate LLC/Urban
                Active property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a Commercial Two/
O-13-08  8-5-08 Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 3.501 acre site located at 8572
                Old Toll Road to allow restaurant and retail uses (Yoder/Paul Hemmer
                Development Company IV, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         3-24-  in a Commercial Services (C-3) Zone for a 0.939 acre portion of an
O-3-09   09     approximate 12.2 acre site located at 8145 Mall Road to allow an
                approximate 5,000 square foot restaurant (Alexander Christofordis/Future
                Properties, LLC property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C- 2/PD) Zone for an approximate
                2.4 acre site located at 7484 Turfway Road (Tumbleweed Restaurant), and
O-4-09   4-14-  an approximate 0.5 acre portion of the 3.838 acre site located at 7492
         09     Turfway Road (Lots 1 and 2 of Spring Hill Suites Subdivision) to allow a
                47,425 square foot hotel in addition to an existing 7,421 square foot
                restaurant on a 2.85 acre site (Tumbleweed, Inc./Shihasi Turfway LLP
                property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-4-     4-19-  in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 1.1698 acre
11    11     site located at 1335 Hansel Avenue, to allow a dental office within an
                existing building (James W. Berling/LPF Corporation property).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a commercial two/
                planned development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 0.2374 acre tract located at 8522
O-11-11  6-28-  U.S. 42; and adopting and approving a change in a concept development
         11     plan in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 0.2570
                acre tract located at 8519 Old Toll Road, to allow a retail development
                on an approximate 0.5 total acre site (Berling/Gillenwater property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in an Office Two/Commercial Two/Planned Development (O-2/C-2/PD) Zone for
O-18-11  10-11- the 2.589 acre lot generally located on the northeast corner of the
         11     Houston Road/Woodspoint Drive intersection, to allow a multi-tenant pylon
                style freestanding sign along Houston Road (Spiral Drive Retail, LLC
                property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for an approximate
         11-22- 9.5 acre site located on the north/west side of Houston Road to the
O-24-11  11     immediate north/east of the property at 6835 Houston Road to allow a
                multi-tenant commercial building and two freestanding restaurants in
                addition to the previously approved development options (RCDK Properties,
                LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-26-11  1-10-  in a commercial services/planned development (C-3/PD) Zone for a 6.5 acre
         12     site located at 7830 Commerce Drive, Florence, Ky, to allow a solar
                charging facility for electric vehicles.
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         3-11-  in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone for a 6.22 acre
O-7-14   14     site located on the northwest corner of the Houston Road / Ted Bushelman
                Boulevard intersection, and to the south fo the property at 5015 Houston
                Road, to allow three multi-tenant commercial buildings.
O-9-            Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
14    4-8-14 in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone, for a 1.7 acre
                site located at 7150 Houston Road, to allow a drive-through facility.
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-12-14  6-10-  in a commercial two/planned development/ mall road (C-2/PD/MR)zone for an
         14     approximate 11.5 acre site located at 7619-7647 Mall Road, to allow an
                additional building mounted sign.
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-17-14  7-1-14 in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone, for a 10.8 acre
                site located at 8739 U.S. 42, Florence, Kentucky, to increase the
                permissible building height to 50 feet (BSM Development, LLC/ERPS, Inc.).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development/ mall road (C-2/PD/MR)zone for a
                21.26 acre site generally located on the south side of Heights Boulevard,
                to allow an accessory storage building and outdoor sales area to be
O-19-14  7-1-14 placed in a corner side yard, and to allow modifications to the storage
                building material, outdoor sales area enclosure, and vehicular use area
                landscaping requirements, in conjunction with the construction of an
                approximate 162,500 square foot home improvement store (Anchor
                Properties/Mall Road KY, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development/ mall road (C-2/PD/MR)zone for an
         10-28- approximate 1.6 acre tract generally located on the southeast corner of
O-25-14  14     the Mall Road and Heights Boulevard intersection, to allow an approximate
                30,000 square foot fitness center/ health club to exceed the maximum
                corner side yard setback, and to allow additional parking in the corner
                side yard (D&J Mall Road, LLC Property).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone, for a 2.032 acre
O-30-14  1-13-  site located on the southeast corner of the U.S. 42/Gunpowder Road
         15     intersection, and across Mels Lane from 8551 U.S. 42, to allow a retail
                pharmacy with an alternate signage package and modifications to previous
                conditions of approval.
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         4-14-  in a commercial services/planned development (C-3/PD) zone for a 5.239
O-7-15   15     acre site located at 25 Cavalier Boulevard, to allow an existing
                recreation/sports facility to be converted into a church (Diocese of
                Covington/Knochelmann).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development/Houston - Donaldson study
O-18-15  11-17- corridor overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) zone for a 4.1491 acre site generally
         15     located on the west side of Seligman Drive and to the south of the
                property at 1090 Vandercar Way, to allow a senior citizen residential
                apartment development (Berling/DC-KY 18 LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-20-15  12-22- in a commercial one (C-1) zone for a 1.633 acre site located at 7550
         15     Dixie Highway, to allow all uses permitted in the C-1 zone (Cobblestone
                Street, II, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-21-15  12-22- overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) zone for a 1.1793 acre site located at 5980
         15     Merchants Street, to allow an auto body repair and glass business with an
                outside storage area (Greg Monnig, Woolpert/Kentucky Asset Management,
                LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a suburban residential two/planned development (SR-2/PD) zone for a
                33.81 acre site generally located on the west side of Hopeful Church Road
O-1-16   2-9-16 between the properties at 7275 and 7393 Hopeful Church Road, across
                Hopeful Church Road from the Hopeful Church Road/Surfwood Drive
                intersection, and at the southern terminus of Meadow Wood Drive, to allow
                attached ranch style rental units (Abercrombie & Associates, Inc./Hopeful
                Road Holdings, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in a commercial two/planned development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/PD/MR)
O-2-16   2-9-16 zone for a 0.76 acre site located at 7840 Mall Road, to allow a
                restaurant with a drive-through facility (LBS Investments/Florence Mall,
                LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         5-10-  in a commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study overlay
O-4-16   16     (C-2/PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 24 acre site located at 7625 Doering
                Drive, to allow two electric vehicle charging stations (NRG eVgo/Walmart
                Real Estate Business Trust).
                Approving a change in an approved concept development plan in a
O-4-17   4-4-17 commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone for an approximate 0.515
                acre site located on the southeast corner of the U.S. 42/Bill Wentz Drive
                intersection, to allow a quick oil change/automotive repair facility.
                Approving a change in an approved concept development plan in a
                commercial two/planned development/Houston- Donaldson study overlay (C-2/
O-5-17   4-4-17 PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 4.1401 acre site generally located on the
                west side of Seligman Drive and to the north of the property at 5935
                Merchants Street, to allow a senior citizen housing/assisted living
                facility.
                Approving a change in an approved concept development plan in an Office
                One/Planned Development (O-1/PD) Zone for a 1.098 acre site located on
                the south side of U.S. 42 and to the immediate west of the property at
                8735 U.S. 42, and for a change in an approved Concept Development Plan in
O-5-18   3-27-  a Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for 1.226 acre site
         18     located on the Southeast Corner of the U.S. 42/Express Street
                Intersection, and a 4.032 acre site located on the south side of Cavalry
                Drive and to the immediate East of the property at 1573 Cavalry Drive, to
                allow additional commercial uses on these three sites (A&K Enterprises,
                Inc.).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in a
         10-8-  commercial two/planned development/Houston- Donaldson study corridor
O-18-19  19     overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) zone for a 14.85 acre site located at 4949 Houston
                Road, (Sam's Club) to allow a gasoline fueling station and for
                modifications to an existing retail building.
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a commercial
O-19-19  11-19- services/planned development/parkway corridor overlay (C-3/PD/PO) zone
         19     for an approximate 1.02 acre site located at 7800 Commerce Drive, to
                allow a digital motor vehicle sales and reconditioning center (Tom Gill).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in an office
         1-14-  two/commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-24-19  20     overlay (O-2/C-2/PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 1.48 acre site located
                on the south/east side of Meijer Drive, to allow a retail store (Duluth
                Trading Company).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in an office
         1-28-  two/commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-1-20   20     overlay (O-2/C-2/PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 0.09 acre portion of the
                26.32 acre lot located at 4990 Houston Road, to allow an electric vehicle
                charging station (Meijer).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in a
                commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone and office one/planned
O-2-20   2-25-  development (O-1/PD) zone for a 0.97 acre lot located on the south side
         20     of U.S. 42, to the immediate west of the property at 8741 U.S. 42 and
                immediate east of the property at 8755 U.S. 42, to allow a multi-tenant
                commercial building (Ken Butler/Jimmy Johns).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in an
         2-25-  industrial one/planned development/Houston- Donaldson study corridor
O-3-20   20     overlay (I-1/PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 2.8 acre site located at 5
                Spiral Drive, to allow modifications, sales, and service of vehicles and
                equipment for the mobility challenged (Mobility Works).
                Adopting and approving a change in concept development plan in an office
         3-24-  two/commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-5-20   20     overlay (O-2/C-2/PD/HDO) zone for an approximate 2.88 acre portion of the
                26.32 acre lot located at 4990 Houston Road, to allow a hotel development
                (Hilton Garden Inn).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for a 4.0895 acre site,
                currently zoned commercial services/planned development/parkway corridor
                study overlay (C-3/PD/PO), located along the north side of Safeway Drive,
O-18-20  12-15- the west side of Industrial Road on the northwest corner of the
         20     Industrial Road/Safeway Drive/Hillcrest Drive intersection, and along the
                east side of Freedom Way on the northeast corner of the Freedom Way/
                Safeway Drive intersection, to allow retail and restaurant uses (Florence
                Exchange, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
         6-22-  commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone for an approximate 11.82
O-9-21   21     acre site located on the northeast corner of the U.S. 42/Farmview Drive
                intersection and the southeast corner of the Old U.S. 42/Farmview Drive
                intersection (Farmview Commons, LLC).
                Approving a zoning map amendment from suburban residential two/parkway
                corridor study overlay (SR-2/PO) to commercial two/ planned development/
                parkway corridor study overlay (C-2/PD/PO) for the northern, approximate
         8-24-  1.3 acres of the property located at 7544 Burlington Pike; and a concept
O-11-21  21     development plan in a commercial two/planned development/parkway corridor
                study overlay (C-2/PD/PO) zone for the southern, approximate 1.23 acres
                of the property located at 7544 Burlington Pike to allow an eating and
                drinking establishment, dog park, and food truck parking (Marshall Land
                Management, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
O-12-21  8-24-  commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone and office one/ planned
         21     development (O-1/PD) zone for a .9703 acre site located at 8747 U.S. 42
                (Ken Butler/Jimmy Johns).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in an urban
O-13-21  8-24-  residential two/ commercial two/planned development (UR-2/C-2/ PD) zone
         21     for an approximate 3.5 acre site located at 1200 Bill Wentz Drive
                (Gunpowder Estates).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
O-18-21  9-14-  commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone for a 2.78 acre site
         21     located on th east side of Bill Wentz Drive, between the properties
                located at 8509 and 8519 U.S. 42 (Hinkebein/Gomez).
         11-16- Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
O-20-21  21     commercial two/planned Development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/PD/MR) zone for
                a 17.157 acre site located at 5000 Apex Lane (Menard, Inc.).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan for a 0.698 acre site,
                currently zoned office two/planned development/parkway corridor study
O-21-21  11-16- overlay (O-2/PD/PO), located on the south side of Burlington Pike,
         21     approximately 235 feet west of the Burlington Pike/Ewing Boulevard
                intersection and between the properties of 7673 and 7777 Burlington Pike
                (315 Burlington Trust).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
O-7-22   5-24-  commercial two/planned development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/PD/MR) district
         22     for an approximate 11.5 acre site located at 828 Heights Boulevard to
                allow alternative building colors (Crossroads Community Church, Inc.).
                Adopting and approving a change in a concept development plan in a
         7-12-  commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-15-22  22     overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) district for an approximate 3.2 acre site located at
                7484-7488 Turfway Road to allow redevelopment of a portion of the site
                with an 8,770 square foot commercial building (Shihasi KY, LLP).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
         9-13-  in an office two/commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson
O-19-22  22     study corridor overlay (O-2/C-2/PD/HDO) district for an approximate 2.4
                acre site located at 370 Meijer Drive to allow a hotel (Residence Inn by
                Marriott).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
                in an office two/commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson
         11-1-  study corridor overlay (O-2/C-2/PD/HDO) District for an approximate one
O-22-22  22     acre site located along the south and west sides of Meijer Drive, between
                Houston Road and Spiral Boulevard, approximately 300 feet southeast of
                Houston Road and being part of the property at 4990 Houston Road to allow
                an eating and drinking establishment (Freddy's Steakburgers).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a commercial two/
O-1-23   2-14-  planned development/Mall Road overlay (C- 2/PD/MR) District for an
         23     approximate 1.4 acre site located at 7897 Mall Road to allow an eating
                and drinking establishment with a drive through facility (Taco John’s).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a commercial two/
                planned development (C-2/PD) District for an approximate 3.9 acre site,
                located along the south side of Cavalry Drive, between Richmond Road and
         2-14-  Wetherington Boulevard, approximately 650 feet west of Wetherington
O-2-23   23     Boulevard, being directly south of the intersection of Express Street
                with Cavalry Drive and having a parcel identification number (PIDN) of
                062.00-00-131.35 to allow a mixed use building having retail, service and
                office uses and 48 multi-family residential units (Plantation Luxury
                Flats, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change in an approved concept development plan
O-6-23   3-28-  in a commercial two/planned development/parkway corridor study overlay
         23     (C-2/PD/PO) District for an approximate 1.3 acre site located at 7592 and
                7600 Burlington Pike to allow a car wash (Prime Car Wash, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan and zoning map
                amendment for a special sign district in a commercial two/planned
         4-25-  development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/PD/MR) zone for an approximate 0.99
O-7-2023 23     acre site located at 7841 Mall Road to allow redevelopment of the site,
                utilizing a portion of the right-of-way of Mall Road and to establish a
                special sign district to modify the requirements of building mounted and
                free standing signage (Lens Crafters).
                Adopting and approving a change of concept development plan in a
O-25-    9-12-  commercial services/planned development/parkway corridor study (C-3/PD/
2023     23     PO) District for an approximate 2.65 acre site located at 7864 Commerce
                Place to allow the expansion of an existing auto body repair facility
                outdoor vehicle storage area (Tom Gill).
                Adopting and approving a change of concept development plan in a
                commercial two/planned development (C-2/PD) zone for an approximate 11.82
                acre site located on the northeast corner of the us 42/Farmview Drive
O-2-2024 2-6-24 intersection and the southeast corner of the old US 42/Farmview Drive
                intersection, Florence and Union, Kentucky, to allow an approximate
                56,000 square foot grocery store with an attached liquor store and drive-
                through pharmacy, along with two out lots for retail, service, and/or
                eating and drinking establishment uses. (Farmview Commons, LLC).
                Adopting and approving a change of concept development plan in a
                commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor (C-2/
O-10-    6-11-  PD/HDO) district for an approximate 10.3 acre site located at 4999
2024     24     Houston Road to allow a portion of the existing building to be used for
                office, retail, recreation, or warehousing and distribution uses.
                (Turfway Commons).
                Adopting and approving a concept development plan in a commercial
O-15-    8-13-  services/planned development/parkway corridor study (C-3/PD/PO) district
2024     24     for an approximate 7 acre site located at 7915 US 42 to allow a density
                bonus for a previously approved hotel, under the PD regulations, and
                provide for an outlot for future development. (Drury Florence, LLC).
               
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of a lease renewal
O-31-90  12-18-90    agreement between the city as lessor, and American Sign
                     and Marketing Services, Inc.
O-49-91  12-10-91    Authorizing participation in the "Kentucky League of
                     Cities Investment Pool Plus."
                     Granting a city tax incentive to Bruening Bearings, Inc.,
O-1-93   1-12-93     as authorized by the Kentucky Jobs Development Act as an
                     inducement to locate a service and technology industry in
                     the city.
O-36-93  12-14-93    Amending the grant given to Bruening Bearings, Inc. in
                     Ordinance O-1-93.
                     Approving an Interlocal Cooperative Agreement among the
                     City of Florence, the City of Cincinnati, the Boone County
O-1-99   1-1-99      Water and Sewer District, and the Boone-Florence Water
                     Commission relating to the purchase of water from the City
                     of Cincinnati for distribution to customers of the City of
                     Florence and the Boone County Water and Sewer District.
O-8-99   6-8-99      Approving an agreement between the city and the Boone-
                     Florence Water Commission for wholesale purchase of water.
O-05-01  4-10-01     Approving a lease in an aggregate principal amount not to
                     exceed $550,000 for the financing of a project.
                    
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-16-70   8-25-70     Granting 20-year gas franchise to Union Light, Heat &
                      Power Company
O-29-70   12-8-70     Granting a 20-year telephone franchise to Cincinnati Bell
O-34-73   10-9-73     Granting a 20-year electric franchise to ULH & P Co.
O-12-83   3-8-83      Granting a franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the
                      collection of garbage, trash, and refuse
O-28-91   9-24-91     Amending the franchise granted to Rumpke of Kentucky,
                      Inc. in Ord. O-2-89.
                      Amending Ord. O-19-91 for the letting at public bidding
                      of a franchise, right and privilege of entering in and
O-39-91   O-39-91     upon the streets, alleys and highways and public places
                      of the city to erect, place and maintain poles,
                      crossarms, wires, cables and other aerial fixtures.
O-51-91   1-14-92     Granting to Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company a
                      franchise.
                      Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to
O-6-92    3-10-92     place gas transmission and distribution facilities in
                      public streets.
                      Accepting the bid of the Union, Light, Heat and Power
O-14-92   5-12-92     Company as highest and best bidder for the gas
                      transmission and distribution franchise.
                      Acceptance bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the
O-6-93    4-13-93     exclusive right and privilege for the collection of
                      garbage, trash and refuse, and granting an exclusive
                      franchise for such purpose.
                      Granting a 20 year franchise to place electric
O-34-93   11-23-93    transmission and distribution facilities in public
                      streets and places of the city to Union Light, Heat &
                      Power Company and Owen Electric Cooperative.
                      Approving the renewal and amendment of the franchise
O-14-96   8-13-96     agreement for cable service of TCI TKR of Northern
                      Kentucky D/B/A TKR Cable of Northern Kentucky.
                      Accepting the bid of Collection Services, Inc., a
                      Kentucky Corporation as the lowest, best, and most
O-4-99    3-9-99      responsible bid for exclusive right and privilege of
                      entering in and upon the streets and public ways of the
                      city for the collection of all solid waste and granting
                      an exclusive franchise for such purpose.
                      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. as the
                      lowest, best and most responsible bid for the exclusive
O-2-09  2-23-09     right and privilege of entering in and upon the streets
                      and public ways of the city for the collection of all
                      solid waste and granting an exclusive franchise for such
                      purpose.
                      Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to
O-7-12    4-10-12     place gas transmission and distribution facilities in
                      public streets and places of the city.
                      Accepting the bid of Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. as
O-12-12   6-19-12     highest and best bidder for the gas transmission and
                      distribution franchise offered under Ord. O-7-12 and
                      awarding such franchise.
                      Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive
O-19-16   1-10-17     telecommunications (or related non-cable) franchise for
                      the placement of facilities for Telecommunications
                      Systems.
                      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. as the
                      lowest, best and most responsible bid for the exclusive
O-5-19    2-26-19     right and privilege of entering in and upon the streets
                      and public ways of the city for the collection of all
                      solid waste and granting an exclusive franchise for such
                      purpose.
O-15-19   7-23-19     Creating a non-exclusive franchise for the operation and
                      maintenance of a cable system in the city.
                     
 
TABLE VII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-14-1897 10-15-97    One acre adjoining cemetery
O-18-1901 12-12-01    Right-of-way to C.N. & C. Electric Railway
O-45-16   8-7-16      Purchase property for cemetery
O-213-49  5-10-49     Purchase of property for erection of fire hall and
                      community building
O-290-54  7-27-54     Sale of lot #23 of E.K. Fish addition
O-34-68   1968        Conveying .889 acres to National Container Corporation
O-09-00   5-9-00      Naming park donated to city by Farmview Development as
                      South Fork Park.
 
TABLE VIII: STREET AND SIDEWALK GRADES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-69-B-29 9-10-29     Establishing grade for a sidewalk on the east and west
                      side of Youell Street
O-74-30   7-1-30      Establishing grade of Dortha Avenue from the east edge of
                      the pavement on the Dixie Highway to the corporation line
                      Establishing grade of Shelby Street from a point 50 feet
O-75-30   7-1-30      west of the west edge of the pavement on Dixie Highway to
                      the east line of Burlington Pike
                      Establishing grade of Shelby Street from a point 50 feet
O-81-31   5-5-31      west of the west edge of the pavement on the Dixie
                      Highway to the east line of the Burlington Pike
O-82-31   5-5-31      Establishing grade of Dortha Ave from the east edge of
                      the pavement on Dixie Highway to corporation line
                      Establishing a grade for Russell Street from its
O-164-41  5-27-41     intersection with U.S. Highway 42 to its intersection
                      with Center Street
                      Establishing a grade for Gibbons Street from its
O-176-42  8-22-42     intersection with U.S. Highway 42 to its intersection
                      with lots 99 and 100 of Florence Fairground Subdivision
                      Establishing a grade for Smith Street from its
O-178-42  8-22-42     intersection with U.S. Highway 25 to its intersection
                      with Gibbons Street
                      Establishing a grade for New Uri Avenue (north section)
O-188-46  5-29-46     from its intersection with U.S. Highway 42 to the
                      corporate limits
                      Establishing a grade on U.S. Highway 25 from the
O-191-46  8-13-46     intersection of U.S. Highway 25 and the Kenton County
                      line southward to the intersection of U.S. Highway 25 and
                      the south corporate limits
                      Establishing a grade for Circle Drive from its
O-201-47  10-14-47    intersection with U.S. Highway 25 to the west corporate
                      limits
O-206-48  3-23-48     Establishing a grade for Circle Drive from the old city
                      limits to the western end of Circle Drive
                      Establishing a grade of a proposed highway project
O-144-63  2-26-63     beginning at a junction of U.S. Highways 42 and 25
                      extending in a westerly direction along U.S. Highway 42
                      to its intersection with Interstate 75
 
 
TABLE IX: STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Street Improvement Order Acceptance and Assessment Bond
Street              Improvement Order   Acceptance and      Bond
                                        Assessment
Airview Avenue                          O-39-75, passed 1-
                                        13-76
Airview Drive from  O-19-74, passed 5-                      O-13-76, passed 4-
U.S. 42 to terminus 14-74                                   13-76
Anchor Way          O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Anchor Way          O-15-84, passed 6-                      O-14-86, passed 5-
                    26-84                                   27-86
Ash Street          O-270-53, passed    O-280-54, passed
                    11-24-53            11-24-53
Ash Street          O-74-60, passed 10-
                    11-60
Ash Street          O-157-63, passed 9- O-198-64, passed 9- O-207-64, passed
                    10-63               22-64               12-22-64
Banklick Street     O-36-12, passed 5-
                    11-12
Banklick Street     O-150-63, passed 6- O-165-63, passed
                    11-63               10-22-63
Banklick Street
beginning at the    O-9-77, passed 4-   O-1-78, passed 1-   O-11-78, passed 4-
existing pavement   12-77               24-78               11-78
of U.S. 42 and 25
Bell Street (a
portion) beginning
at the end of the
existing pavement
on Bell Avenue      O-223-65, passed 5-
northwesterly 182.5 11-65
feet to the edge of
the existing
pavement of Julia
Avenue
Bell Street         O-294-67, passed 2- O-326-67, passed
                    14-67               11-14-67
Beverly Place                           O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Beverly Place,
south 49 west,      O-35-59, passed 5-  O-54-59, passed 12-
702.5 feet to the   26-59               22-59
east side of Dorcas
Avenue
Burk Avenue         O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Burk Avenue         O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Burk Avenue
beginning at south
line of Fairfield
Subdivision first
addition and        O-324-55, passed    O-34-56, passed 9-
extending           12-13-55            20-56
northwestwardly 700
feet to north line
of Fairfield
Subdivision
Burlington Pike     O-35-12, passed 5-
                    9-12
Burlington Pike
from the terminus
of the present
water main to the
intersection of
Kathryn Avenue and
of Kathryn Avenue   O-256-53, passed 4- O-262-53, passed 9-
from its            28-53               22-53
intersection with
Burlington Pike to
its farthest
extremity a total
distance of 700
feet.
Burlington Pike     O-315-55, passed 7- O-325-55, passed
from Kathryn Avenue 19-55               12-13-55
to Utz Drive
Burlington Pike     O-380-57, passed    O-325-55 passed 12-
westwardly from Utz 12-3-57             13-55
Drive 2020 feet.
Cardinal Drive from
Burlington Pike
northwardly and
northeastwardly a
distance of 1,085   O-380-57, passed    O-325-55, passed
feet and Cardinal   12-3-57             12-13-55
Place
northwestwardly a
distance of 286
feet
Cardinal Drive      O-6A-71, passed 3-  O-20-71, passed 11- O-6-72, passed 3-
                    23-71               9-71                14-72
Cardinal Place      O-6A-71, passed 3-  O-20-71, passed 11- O-6-72, passed 3-
                    23-71               9-71                14-72
Center Avenue       O-152-63, passed 7-
                    9-63
Center Street       O-125-36, passed 5-
                    5-36
Center Street       O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Center Street, from
the existing water  O-394-58, passed 6- O-9-58, passed 9-9-
main to the water   10-58               58
main on Shelby
Street, 970 feet
Center Street from
the end of the Blue
Grass Subdivision   O-95-61, passed 9-  O-129-62, passed 8- O-134-62, passed
to the easterly     26-61               14-62               11-13-62
side of Roberta
Avenue
Center Street from  O-330-67, passed    O-15-69, passed 10- O-1-70, passed 1-
Girard Street to    11-28-67            21-69               27-70
Roberta Avenue
Chipman Drive                           O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Chipman Drive                           O-23-80, passed 8-
beginning at the    O-39-79, passed 12- 26-80 Reaffirmed by O-14-81, passed 3-
existing pavement   11-79               0-39-80, passed 12- 10-81
on Kentaboo Avenue                      9-80
Circle Drive from
its intersection
with U.S. Highway
25 westwardly a     O-207-48, passed 4-
distance of 950     13-48
feet to a point in
the circle of
Circle Drive.
Circle Drive        O-254-53, passed 4-
                    28-53
Circle Drive        O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Circle Drive from
U.S. Highway 25
extending
westwardly a
distance of 1385
feet in the
city                O-283-54, passed 5- O-303-55, passed 1-
                    11-54               11-55
Covington &         O-33-12, passed 5-
Lexington Turnpike  11-12
Curtis Avenue                           O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Curtis Avenue       O-152-63, passed 7- O-196-64, passed 9-
                    9-63                8-64
Curtis Avenue                           O-245-65, passed
                                        11-23-65
Dell Avenue         O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Dell Street         O-336-56, passed 5- O-354-56, passed
                    8-56                10-23-56
Dixie Highway and   O-125-36, passed 5-
Center Street       5-36
Dixie Highway west
side from its
intersection with
Shelby Street       O-193-46, passed
running 735 feet to 10-1-46
the intersection of
U.S. Highway 42 and
25
Dixie Highway east
side from driveway
on east side of Old
U.S. Highway 25,    O-194-46, passed
extending south 815 10-1-46
feet to the
intersection of
U.S. Highway 42 and
25
Dixie Highway from
intersection of
U.S. 42 and 25 and  O-195-46, passed
old U.S. Highway 25 10-1-46
685 feet to Dortha
Street
Dorcas Avenue                           O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Dorcas Avenue,
south 50 east,
548.5 feet, from    O-35-59, passed 5-  O-54-59, passed 12-
Morris Street to    26-59               22-59
south side of lot
38 of Monte Vista
Subdivision
Dortha Avenue       O-19-78, passed 6-  O-3-80, passed 2-   O-11-80, passed 5-
                    27-78               26-80               13-80
Dortha Avenue       O-13-83, passed 4-
                    12-83
Dortha Street       O-77-30, passed 7-
                    1-30
Dortha Street       O-84-31, passed 5-
                    5-31
                                                            O-7-81, passed 2-
Dream Street        O-6-80, passed 3-   O-27-80, passed 9-  10-81 amended by 0-
                    25-80               23-80               19-81, passed 3-24-
                                                            81
Dream Street        O-17-02, passed 6-
                    25-02
Drexel Avenue                           O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Drexel Avenue from
the intersection of
Kentaboo Avenue,    O-365-57, passed 5- O-22-59, passed 1-
extending           14-57               13-59
westwardly a
distance of 700
feet
Drexel Avenue                           O-22-59, passed 1-
                                        13-59
Edward Avenue       O-254-53, passed 4- O-263-53, passed 9-
                    28-53               22-53
Edward Avenue       O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Edward Avenue       O-336-56, passed 5- O-354-56, passed
                    8-56                10-23-56
Fair Avenue from
its intersection
with Dixie Highway
westwardly          O-190-46, passed 8- O-196-47, passed 3-
approximately 400   13-46               11-47
feet to a point
near its
intersection with
Gibbons Street
Fair Court from its
intersection with
Valley Drive        O-237-52, passed 6- O-248-53, passed 1-
northwardly a       27-52               13-53
distance of 260
feet
                    O-11-77, passed 4-  O-41-78, passed 11- O-7-79, passed 3-
Fair Court          26-77; 0-8-78,      28-78               27-79
                    passed 3-14-78
Fair Street         O-228-65, passed 6-                     O-279-66, passed 9-
                    22-65                                   27-66
Florence Mall Road                      O-37-76, passed 8-  O-46-73, passed 12-
Project                                 24-76               19-75
Gibbons Street from
the intersection of
Gibbons Street with
U.S. Highway 42 to  O-177-42, passed 8- O-182-43, passed
its intersections   22-42               11-23-43
with lots 99 and
100 of Florence
Fairgrounds
Subdivision.
Gibbons Street,
beginning at a
point in the center
of Gibbons Street   O-228-65, passed 6-
southeasterly 45.8  22-65
feet to a point
12.5 feet from the
center line of Fair
Street.
Gibbons Street      O-266-66, passed 6- O-266-66, passed 6- O-279-66, passed 9-
                    28-66               28-66               27-66
Girard Street west
side of said street
extending from the
south line of       O-314-55, passed 7- O-321-55, passed
Center Street,      19-55               11-25-55
southwardly a
distance of 270
feet to a new
concrete apron
Goodridge Drive
from Dixie Highway  O-308-67, passed 6- O-8-68, passed 2-7- O-13-68, passed 4-
south to county     14-67               68                  23-68
line
Grand Avenue        O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Grand Avenue from
U.S. Highway 42
extending
southwardly a
distance of 1100
feet to the common  O-313-55, passed 6- O-326-55, passed
corner of lots 10   19-55               12-13-55
and 11 on the east
side and common
corner of lots 14
and 15 of the west
side of Grand
Avenue
Grand Avenue
extending
westwardly from the
intersection with   O-329-56, passed 3- O-353-56, passed
Edwards Avenue a    16-56               10-23-56
distance of 1,445
feet to the
existing end of a
concrete paving.
Highridge Avenue
from the
intersection of                         O-355-56, passed
Kentaboo Avenue to                      11-13-56
the Ball Park a
distance of 1367
feet
Highridge Avenue    O-10-73, passed 3-  O-3-75, passed 2-   O-21-75, passed 5-
                    29-73               11-75               29-75
Hollywood Drive     O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Hollywood Drive     O-15-84, passed 6-                      O-14-86, passed 5-
                    26-84                                   27-86
Julia Avenue        O-336-56, passed 5- O-354-56, passed
                    8-56                10-23-56
Kathryn Avenue from O-6-71, passed 3-   O-18-71, passed 9-
Kentucky 18         23-71               16-71
southeast
Kelley Drive                            O-24-90, passed 10-
                                        9-90
Kentaboo                                O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Kentaboo Avenue
from Boone-Kenton   O-3-69, passed 2-   O-13-69, passed 10- O-3-70, passed 2-
line to the         25-69               14-69               24-70
northwest side of
Drexel Avenue
Lake Drive          O-74-60, passed 10- O-98-61, passed 11-
                    11-60               14-61
Lee Street          O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Lee Street          O-336-56, passed 5- O-354-56, passed
                    8-56                10-23-56
Lexington Avenue
from Dixie Highway                      O-20-58, passed 12-
to Kentaboo Drive a                     23-58
distance of 1000
feet
Lexington Avenue    O-248-65, passed    O-281-66, passed    O-293-66, passed
                    12-14-55            10-11-66            12-13-66
Lloyd Avenue from   O-8-72, passed 4-   O-38-72, passed 11- O-6-73, passed 2-
Girard Street north 11-72               14-72               27-73
Lucas Avenue                            O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Lucas Avenue from
the intersection of
Kentaboo Avenue,    O-31-59, passed 4-  O-49-59, passed 10-
extending           14-59; O-46-59,     27-59
eastwardly a        passed 7-28-59
distance of 740
feet
Lynn Street from
its intersection    O-149-63, passed 6- O-167-63, passed    O-178-64, passed 2-
with Main Street to 11-63               11-26-63            11-64
its intersection
with Lloyd Avenue
Main Street         O-54-19, passed 5-
                    5-19
Main Street from
the south
intersection of
U.S. Highways 25    O-388-58, passed 4- O-45-59, passed 7-
and 42 a distance   8-58                14-59
of 2985 feet to the
north intersection
of U.S. Highways 25
and 42
Meadow Lane         O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Meadow Lane from
the east side of
Orchard Drive                           O-53-59, passed 12-
extending           O-39-59, passed - - 8-59; Am. Ord. O-
westwardly a        59                  58-59, passed 1-12-
distance of 743                         60
feet to the west
side of Dixie
Highway
Montgomery Street                       O-22-70, passed 10-
                                        27-70
Morris (Morrow)
Street beginning at O-12-76, passed 4-  O-41-76, passed 10- O-47-76, passed 1-
the edge of         13-76               12-76               11-77
existing pavement
of Kentaboo Drive
New Uri Avenue
(north section)
from its
intersection with   O-189-46, passed 5- O-198-47, passed 5-
U.S. Highway 42 to  29-46               13-47
its intersection
with the corporate
limits
New Uri Avenue for
a distance of 1360
lineal feet
extending from its
easterly            O-236-52, passed O- O-258-53, passed 6-
intersection with   16-52               9-53
U.S. Highway 42 to
its westerly
intersection with
U.S. Highway 42
New Uri Avenue      O-270-53, passed    O-280-54, passed 3-
                    11-24-53            9-54
New Uri Avenue      O-14-82, passed 5-                      O-41-83, passed 12-
                    25-82                                   20-83
Oblique Street from O-331-67, passed    O-42-68, passed 12- O-6-69, passed 4-8-
Burlington Pike to  11-28-67            3-68                69
Center Street
Orchard Drive       O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Orchard Drive
extending from the
north edge of the
pavement on Roger                       O-53-59, passed 12-
Lane northwardly to O-39-59, passed - - 8-59; Am. Ord. O-
the north boundary  59                  58-59, passed 1-12-
of Orchard Acres                        60
Subdivision a
distance of 849.33
feet.
Price Pike from the
present terminus of O-247-52, passed    O-252-53, passed 2-
the city water main 12-29-52            24-53
north westwardly
510 feet
Ridgeview Avenue                        O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Ridgeview Avenue
from the
intersection of                         O-47-59 passed 7-
Kentaboo Avenue,    O-40-59, passed 6-  28-59; Am. Ord. O-  O-63-60, passed 1-
extending           23-59               59-59, passed 1-12- 23-60
eastwardly a                            60
distance of 800
feet
Ridgeway Avenue                         O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Ridgeway Street     O-11-73, passed 3-  O-46-74, passed 11- O-7-75, passed 2-
from Sundale Avenue 29-73               26-74               25-75
to Tee Street
Roger Lane          O-254-53, passed 4-
                    28-53
Roger Lane          O-266-53, passed    O-278-54, passed 2-
                    10-27-53            23-54
Roger Lane from
U.S. Highway 25
extending           O-323-55, passed    O-347-56, passed 9-
westwardly a        12-13-55            20-56
distance of 2592
feet
                                        O-9-69, passed 7-8-
Rose Street                             690-12-69, passed
                                        9-23-69
Rose Avenue         O-20-78, passed 6-  O-4-80, passed 2-   O-12-80, passed 5-
                    27-78               26-80               27-80
Russell Street
(from intersection
of Russell Street   O-165-41, passed 5- O-169-41, passed
with U.S. Highway   27-41               10-14-41
42 to its
intersection with
Center Street)
Russell Street      O-249-66, passed 1- O-295-67, passed 2- O-304-67, passed 4-
                    11-66               28-67               26-67
Sanders Drive
beginning on U.S.   O-23-74, passed 6-  O-24-75, passed 7-  O-32-75, passed 9-
25 and 24 then      11-74               8-75                23-75
south to Boone-
Kenton County Line
Scott Drive         O-270-53, passed    O-280-54, passed 3-
                    11-24-53            9-54
Scott Drive         O-157-63, passed 9- O-198-64, passed 9- O-207-64, passed
                    10-63               22-64               12-22-64
Shelby Street       O-34-12, passed 5-
                    9-12
Shelby Street       O-76-30, passed 7-
                    1-30
Shelby Street       O-83-31, passed 5-  O-90-31, passed 9-
                    5-31                1-31
Smith Street from
its intersection
with U.S. Highway   O-179-42, passed 8- O-181-43, passed
25 to its           22-42               11-23-43
intersection with
Gibbons Street
Smith Street        O-228-65, passed 6-                     O-279-66, passed 9-
                    22-65                                   27-66
Spruce Drive from   O-16-69, passed 10- O-20-70, passed 9-
beginning north     28-69               22-70
Sweetbriar Avenue   O-317-67, passed 8-
from Price Pike to  22-67 Amended by O- O-36-68, passed 10-
terminus of         319-67, passed 10-  22-68
Sweetbriar Avenue   3-67
Tanners Lane
between U.S.
Highway 42 and end  O-31-68, passed 9-  O-19-70, passed 9-  O-24-70, passed 11-
of state maintained 3-68                8-70                17-70
portion of Tanners
Lane south of
Kentucky 18
Tee Street                              O-344-56, passed 7-
                                        24-56
Tee Street from     O-12-73, passed 3-  O-47-74, passed 11- O-8-75, passed 2-
south terminus      29-73               26-74               25-75
north
Burlington Pike
from Kathryn Avenue
to Utz Drive a
distance of 550
feet; Utz Drive                         O-325-55, passed
from Burlington     O-315-55, passed 7- 12-13-55; O-393-56,
Pike extending      19-55               passed 6-10-56
northwardly a
distance of 1850
feet along Utz
Drive to city
limits
Utz Drive from the
northwest end of
the present water
main on Utz Drive   O-52-59, passed 11- O-77-60, passed 12-
and extending a     24-59               13-60
distance of 252.5
feet in a
northwestwardly
direction
Utz Drive from its
intersection with   O-158-63, passed 9- O-211-65, passed 3- O-224-65, passed 5-
Burlington Pike to  17-63               11-65               25-65
its intersection
with Coretta Drive
Valley Drive for a
distance of 692
feet extending from O-237-52, passed 6- O-248-53, passed 1-
U.S. Highway 25 to  27-52               13-53
the end of the
first subdivision
Valley Drive from
the terminus of the
present water main
to the end of
Valley Drive in the O-260-53, passed 6- O-264-53, passed 9-
Stegner Addition to 23-53               22-53
the Valley View
Subdivision a
distance of 610
feet
Valley Drive
beginning at a
point 65 feet west  O-282-54, passed 5- O-298-54, passed
of the intersection 11-54               11-23-54
of Valley Drive and
Fair Court
                    O-11-77, passed 4-  O-41-78, passed 11- O-7-79, passed 3-
Valley Drive        26-77; 0-8-78,      28-78               27-79
                    passed 3-14-78
Virginia Avenue
beginning at the
intersection of
Virgina Avenue and  O-372-57, passed 6- O-379-57, passed
Lexington Avenue    11-57               10-8-57
extending
eastwardly 450 feet
to the Boone-Kenton
County line
Wells Street        O-228-65, passed 6-                     O-279-66, passed 9-
                    22-65                                   27-66
Woodland Avenue     O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
Woodland Avenue
from U.S. Highway
42 extending        O-308-55, passed 4- O-322-55, passed
southeastwardly a   12-55               11-25-55
distance of 1330
feet
Youell Street       O-69-29, passed 9-
                    10-29
Youell Street       O-329a-56, passed
                    3-16-56
                    O-17-72, passed ;   O-17-74, passed 4-  O-33-74, passed 8-
Youell Street       0-27-73, passed 7-  16-74               27-74
                    10-73
U.S. 25             O-254-53, passed 4-
                    28-53
U.S. 42             O-270-53, passed    O-280-54, passed 3-
                    11-24-53            9-54
U.S. 42             O-277-54, passed 2- O-284-54, passed 6-
                    9-54                8-54
TABLE X: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-11-69  1969        Change of name from Tangent Road to Woodspoint Drive
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-11-69  1969        Change of name from Tangent Road to Woodspoint Drive
O-48-81  10-27-81    Change of name for the following streets:
                   (A)All of Kentucky Highway 18 which is located within the
                     city limits is named Burlington Pike
                     (B)Price Pike and Sweetbriar Avenue are named as shown on
                   the plat which is attached to the ordinance and
                     incorporated therein, identified as Exhibit "A"
                     (C)Drexel Avenue is named as shown on the plat which is
                   attached to the ordinance and incorporated therein,
                     identified as Exhibit "B"
O-12-82  5-25-82     Changing the name of Commerce Park Drive to Dream Street
O-20-83  6-14-83     Change of name of a portion of Price Pike to Sweetbriar
                     Avenue
O-7-90   3-13-90     Change of name of Center Drive to Hillside Drive.
O-10-94  6-28-94     Changing the name of a portion of Tanners Lane to Ewing
                     Boulevard.
O-12-94  7-26-94     Naming a new portion of street Tanners Gate Drive between
                     Tanners Lane and the existing Tanners Gate Drive.
                     Giving the name of Hopeful Church Road to portions of
                     Kentucky Highway 842 (relocated Hopeful Road) which are in
O-7-97   3-25-97     the city and determining that those portions of former
                     Hopeful Road which are not included in Kentucky Highway
                     842 shall continue to be named Hopeful Road.
O-8-97   4-8-97      Changing the name of Fair Court, between Valley Drive and
                     the cul-de-sac, to Becker Lane.
                     Naming a section of the street which intersects with
O-03-00  2-2-00      Kentucky Highway 18 opposite its intersection with Girard
                     Street as Shaun Alexander Way.
O-10-00  5-9-00      Naming street which encircles the Florence Government
                     Center as Veterans Memorial Drive.
                     Changing the name of Exchange Drive to Cayton Road, the
O-31-05  12-20-05    effect being to extend the existing Cayton Road from its
                     intersection with Connector Drive to the intersection with
                     Mall Road.
O-18-12  10-23-12    Changing the name of a portion of Woodspoint Drive to Ted
                     Bushelman Boulevard.
O-14-15  8-4-15      Giving the names of Heights Boulevard, Pinnacle Drive, and
                     Apex Lane to streets in the city.
O-16-17  11-28-17    Changing the name of Steinberg Drive to Bob Webster Way.
O-17-17  11-28-17    Changing the name of Biggs Drive to Charles R. Callen
                     Drive.
O-6-2024 4-16-24     Changing the name of Holiday Drive to Betsy Conrad Way.
O-7-2024 4-16-24     Changing the name of a section of Cardinal Drive and
                     Commerce Place to Tom Gill Way.
                    
 
TABLE XI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date    Description
No.   Passed
O-
214-  5- -49  Partial closing of Locust Lane
49
O-    12-13-
215-  49      Closing Locust Lane north of Glenrose Avenue
49
O-
232-  4-8-52  Closing the circle at westerly end of Circle Drive
52
O-
292-  9-14-54 Closing a portion of Meadow Lane
54
O-
316A- 1955    Closing a portion of Woodland Avenue
55
O-72- 8-23-60 Closing a portion of Grand Avenue
60
O-90- 1961    Closing an alley in Fitzgerald Subdivision
61
O-    11-23-
246-  65      Closing a portion of Lake Drive
65
O-
262-  5-24-66 Closing a portion of Lake Drive at Dogwood Lane in Denham Subdivision
66
O-
273-  8-9-66  Closing Mayrose, Grove, and South Streets in Salonger Heights Subdivision
66
O-            Closing North, South, East, Sunvale, Short, Circle Drive, and portion of Tee
274-  8-9-66  Street in Erlanger Heights Subdivision
66
O-
312-  7-12-67 Closing a portion of Old Buffington Road within NKIF
67
O-7-  2-19-68 Closing an alleyway from Lucas Alley to Locust Street
68
O-2-  1-25-72 Closing Thomas Street
72
O-23- 6-27-72 Closing portions of Walnut Street, Winding Way, and East Street
72
O-15- 1973    Closing the excess right-of-way of Shenandoah Drive
73
O-6-  3-12-74 Closing all of an unnamed street located on the east side of Utz Drive
74
O-52- 12-11-  Closing all of an unnamed street on the southerly side of Coretta Drive
74    74
O-8-  3-22-77 Closing an unnamed alley near Goodridge Drive
77
O-17- 6-12-79 Closing Francis Court
79
O-35- 10-23-  Closing a portion of Woodland Avenue
79    79
O-11- 5-11-82 Closing a portion of Curtis Avenue
82
O-37- 11-22-  Closing an alley lying west of and adjacent to lot 14 of the John Stephens
83    83      Subdivision and immediately east of and adjacent to the lot known as the "old
              post office property"
O-18- 6-26-84 Closing all of Victor Drive and parts of Kentaboo Avenue and Hazel Drive
84
O-45- 10-13-  Closing a portion of an alley on the northeast side of Sanders Drive, known as
87    87      Sanders Drive Alley, and relocating same as a public way or alley in the city
O-2-  10-13-  Closing a portion of a ten-foot alley as shown on the plat of Nonpareil Park
90    87      Subdivision in the vicinity of the intersection of Goodridge Drive and Dixie
              Highway
O-4-  2-27-90 Closing a portion of Caroline Avenue as a public way
90
O-26- 1-13-97 Closing a portion of Ashcraft Drive, pursuant to written consent of all
97            adjoining property owners
O-24- 6-22-04 Closing a portion of the Nonpareil Park Subdivision in the vicinity of
04            Goodridge Drive and Sanders Drive
O-11- 5-23-06 Closing the unimproved public right-of-way of Spicewood Street between Lot 1,
06            Block No. 8 and Lot 12, Block No. 7 of Erlanger Heights Subdivision
O-28- 12-18-  Closing a portion of Park Drive as a platted but unpaved public way located
07    07      within the city limits.
O-6-          Closing a portion of existing public right-of-way for a public way located
15    4-14-15 within the city on the west side of Mel’s Land and south of Bill Wentz Drive
              as part of Gunpowder Centre Development in the city.
O-16- 12–8-2Closing and abandoning a portion of excess right-of-way for a public way along
20            and near the intersection of Shelby Street and Main Street.
O-3-          Closing and abandoning a portion of excess right-of-way for a public way,
22    4-26-22 being part of an alley on the northwest side of Main Street, northeast of
              Shelby Street.
             
 
TABLE XII: WATER AND SEWER LINE IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-115-34 8-7-34      Creating a sinking fund on $16,000 worth of water works
                     improvement bonds for operation of water system in town
O-166-41 5-27-41     Improvement of certain streets by constructing a sanitary
                     sewer under and along those streets
O-185-44 12-1-44     Issuance of $16,000 water works improvement bonds
O-60-60  1-18-60     Issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds
O-78-60  12-27-60    Accepting improvement of water works system
O-124-62 - -62       Assessment for construction of sewer line to serve Wilson-
                     McWhorter Subdivisions
O-154-63 6-26-63     Accepting improvement of Florence Sanitary Sewerage System
O-155-63 7-9-63      Accepting improvement of Sanitary Sewerage System in
                     Coludoth Heights Subdivision
O-168-63 11-26-63    Accepting improvement of Sanitary Sewer System on
                     Sweetbriar Avenue
O-181-64 3-30-64     Issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds, series, l964
O-183-64 4-30-64     Accepting water line improvement on Utz Drive and Coretta
                     Drive
O-272-66 8-9-66      Accepting the improvements of the waterworks system on
                     Industrial Road
O-286-66 11-9-66     Issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds series l966 for
                     improving the water and sewer system
O-3-68   1-23-68     Accepting the improvement of the waterworks system
O-22-68  6-27-68     Issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds series l968
O-26-68  7-25-68     Providing for the improvement of waterworks and sewer
                     system
O-41-68  11-26-68    Improvement of municipal waterworks and sewer system
O-43-68  1-7-69      Accepting the improvement of the waterworks and sewer
                     system
                     Amended and corrected by 0-4-69, passed 2-25-69
O-10-69  8-26-69     Waterworks and sewers system installment payment plan
O-17-69  10-28-69    Accepting improvement of waterworks and sanitary sewer
                     system
O-12-70  6-9-70      Payment plan for waterworks and sewer system
O-26-70  11-24-70    Providing for the improvement of the city's combined
                     waterworks and sewer system
O-8-71   5-11-71     Accepting the improvement of the city's combined
                     waterworks and sewer system
O-26-71  11-10-71    Providing for the improvement of the city's waterworks
                     beginning in Turfway Road near Rink's service entrance
O-18-72  5-23-72     Accepting improvement of city's waterworks in Turfway Road
O-7-73   3-13-73     Installment payment plan for improvement of waterworks in
                     Turfway Road
O-12-75  3-25-75     Improvement of water and sewer systems beginning at U.S.
                     42 east of LaCresta Drive
O-13-75  3-25-75     Improvement of water and sewer systems on North Dilcrest
                     Drive
O-29-75  8-26-75     Improvement of water and sewer systems for the Blevins
                     Property
O-35-75  10-28-75    Accepting the improvement of the La Cresta Drive sanitary
                     sewer improvement
O-40-75  1-13-76     Accepting the improvement of the U.S. 42 sanitary sewer
                     improvement
O-4-76   2-10-76     Providing for the improvement of the municipal waterworks
                     and sanitary sewer systems
O-11-76  3-9-76      Providing for the installment payment plan for the
                     sanitary sewer line improvement for La Cresta Drive
                     Providing for the improvement of the municipal waterworks
O-15-76  4-27-76     and sewer systems on the west side of Kentaboo Avenue
                     extending through property on Chipman Drive
O-22-76  5-25-76     Accepting the improvement of the U.S. 42 sanitary sewer
                     improvement
O-13-79  6-12-79     Providing for the improvement of the waterworks and sewer
                     systems
O-14-79  6-12-79     Providing for the improvement of the waterworks and sewer
                     systems
O-18-79  7-24-79     Providing for the improvement of the municipal waterworks
                     and sanitary sewer systems
O-33-79  10-23-79    Accepting the improvement of the Kelley Drive sewer
                     improvement (Amended by 0-2-80, passed 2-12-80)
                     Providing for the installment payment plan for the
O-10-80  4-22-80     improvement of the waterworks and sewer system along
                     Kelley Drive
O-16-80  6-10-80     Accepting the improvement of the sanitary sewer system
                     along U.S. 42
O-33-80  10-14-80    Accepting the improvement of the sanitary sewer system
                     along Dilcrest Avenue
O-38-80  12-9-80     Providing for the installment payment plan for a sewer
                     extension along U.S. 42
O-33-84  11-14-84    Providing for the defeasance of all outstanding water and
                     sewer revenue bonds dated 12-1-74 and 3-1-75
                     Authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of not
O-34-84  11-14-84    less than $2,500,000 and not more than $4,500,000 of sewer
                     revenue bonds (Amended by Ord. O-37-84)
O-37-84  12-4-84     Amending Ord. O-34-84
                     Declaring that the city has determined to proceed with the
O-20-99  9-28-99     sanitary sewer improvement for Skyview Drive, Valley View
                     Drive and Meadow View Drive, by special assessment.
                     Declaring that the city has determined to proceed with the
O-21-99  9-28-99     water main improvement for Skyview Drive, Valley View
                     Drive and Meadow View Drive, by special assessment.
O-20-01  11-13-01    Approving an agreement with the Boone-Florence Water
                     Commission for the wholesale purchase of water.
 
TABLE XIII: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
         Passed
                  Approving a rezoning of real estate located in the city, such zone
O-44-91  11-26-91 change being for property located on the east side of Mall Road. The
                  zone change being from its present zone of commercial two/planned
                  development to a commercial two zone.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate for an approximate 12 acre
O-10-92  4-14-92  site from its present zone of industrial one/planned development to
                  commercial two/planned development.
                  Approving a rezoning of real estate for an approximate 5 acre site from
O-20-92  6-23-92  its present zone of surburban residential to commercial two located
                  along old U.S. Highway 42 and relocated U.S. Highway 42.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located for an approximate
O-21-92  O-21-92  20.2 acre site from its present zone of commercial two to urban
                  residential one and commercial three.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located for an approximate
O-22-92  7-21-92  1.51 acre parcel located on lot 15 of Turfway Business Park, this
                  rezoning being from its present zone of industrial one/planned
                  development to commercial two/planned development.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-4-93   2-23-93  approximate 0.92 acre site located at 8217 Burlington Pike from (C-2) to
                  (C-3).
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-25-93  9-28-93  approximately 1 +/-acre site located at 7392 Burlington Pike (R1-F) to
                  (O-1A).
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-14-94  7-26-94  approximate 7.87 acre site located on the southeast quadrant of I-75 and
                  U.S. 42 from C-3 to C-2/PD.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-17-94  8-9-94   approximate 21 acre site located on the Florence Drive-in site from R
                  and SR-2 to UR-1 and C-2.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-24-94  9-6-94   approximate 1.2 acre site located on U.S. 25, just north of Circle
                  Drive, from SR-2 to C-1 subject to agreed conditions.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-34-94  11-22-94 approximate 4.10 acre site located generally along I-75 near the end of
                  Steilen Drive, from R to C-3 subject to an agreed development plan.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city for an
O-1-95   1-17-95  approximate .4 acre site located generally at or near the intersection
                  of Turfway Road and Curtis Avenue, from SR-2 to C-1.
O-13-95  9-12-95  Approving a rezoning of a 2,500 square foot site located in the city,
                  located at 8080 Steilen Drive, from C-3 to PF.
                  Approving a rezoning of certain real estate located in the city, for an
O-26-95  12-12-95 approximate 4.7 acre site located generally at or near the intersection
                  of Burlington Pike and Hopeful Road, from C-2 to C-3.
                  Rezoning 321 acres located on both sides of U.S. Highway 42 and to the
O-17-96  9-10-96  east of Union Village Subdivision, Florence from SR-1 to RPD, O-1/PD,
                  and C-2/PD.
                  Rezoning three parcels located at 2 Goodridge Drive, 7 Goodridge Drive
O-9-97   4-22-97  and 6711 Dixie Highway from the present zoning of Suburban Residential
                  Two (SR-2), Commercial One (C-1) and Commercial Two (C-2) to Commercial
                  Services (C-3) (Suburban Motors, Inc. - Wickelhaus Property).
                  Rezoning approximately 0.58 acre site generally located on the southeast
O-16-97  6-24-97  corner of the Kentucky 18 and Hopeful Church Road intersection in the
                  city from its present zoning of Commercial Two (C-2) to Commercial
                  Services (C-3).
O-4-98   3-24-98  Rezoning approximately 5 acres located at 6900 Hopeful Road from Urban
                  Residential One/Planned Development (UR-1/PD) to Public Facilities (PF).
                  Rezoning approximately 0.37 acres which is part of a larger 0.94 acre
O-8-98   5-12-98  site located at 7430 U.S. 42, from Suburban Residential One (SR-1) to
                  Office One (O-1).
O-10-98  6-9-98   Rezoning approximately 2.5 acres located 8072 and 8074 U.S. Highway 42,
                  from Commercial Services (C-3) to Commercial Two (C-2).
                  Rezoning an approximate 95 acre site generally located on both sides of
O-18-98  9-22-98  Houston Road between Kentucky 18 and Woodspoint Drive from Industrial
                  One/Planned Development (I-1/PD) and Office Two/Planned Development (O-
                  2/PD) to Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD)
                  Rezoning an approximate 1.6 acre site located at 7828-7850 U.S. Highway
O-28-98  12-22-98 42 in the city, from Office Two/Planned Development (O-2/PD) to
                  Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD).
                  Rezoning an approximately 6 acres located at 7009 Dixie Highway in the
O-6-99   5-11-99  city, from Commercial Two (C-2) to Commercial Two/Planned Development
                  (C-2/PD).
                  Rezoning an approximately 4 acre site located at 8727 U.S. Highway 42 in
O-16-99  7-27-99  the city, from Commercial Two (C-2) to Commercial Two/Planned
                  Development (C-2/PD).
                  Rezoning an approximately 0.25 acre site located at 2 Grand Avenue and
O-22-99  9-28-99  7575 U.S. Highway 42 in the city, from Suburban Residential One (SR-1)
                  to Office One (O-1).
                  Rezoning approximately 367 acres generally located on the north side of
                  Longbranch Road approximately 1,900 feet west of the Longbranch/Fowler
O-23-99  9-28-99  Creek Road intersection from Rural Suburban Estates (RSE) to Rural
                  Suburban/Planned Development (RS/PD, Suburban Residential One (SR-1),
                  Suburban Residential One/Planned Development (SR-1/PD) and Public
                  Facilities (PF).
                  Rezoning an approximately 0.61 acre site located at 7368 Burlington Pike
O-31-99  12-21-99 in the city from Residential One Family (R1F) to Professional Office One
                  (O-1A).
O-23-00  12-5-0   Rezoning an approximate 12 acre site located at 8145 Mall Road from
                  Commercial Two (C-2) to Commercial Services (C-3).
O-04-01  4-10-01  Rezoning an approximate 2,250 square foot site located at 8 Gibbons
                  Street from Office One (O-1) to suburban Residential Two (SR-2).
                  Rezoning a 0.459 acre parcel located on the south side of Hopeful Road
O-08-02  4-30-02  Connector and a 0.86 acre site on the west side of Hopeful Road from
                  Suburban Residential One (SR-1) to Urban Residential One (UR-1).
                  Rezoning an approximate 0.45 acre site located at 7276 Burlington Pike
O-29-02  12-3-02  from Residential One Family (R1F) to Commercial Two (C-2). (Colcord
                  Property)
                  Rezoning an approximate 0.3446 acre site from Urban Residential Two (UR-
                  2) to Public Facilities Planned Development (PF/PD); rezoning an
O-30-02  11-26-02 approximate 1.8692 acre site from Office Two/Public Facilities/Planned
                  Development (PF/PD) to Public Facilities/ Planned Development (PF/PD)
                  both located at 7766 Ewing Boulevard.
O-08-03  5-13-03  Rezoning an approximate 0.25 acre portion of the 0.72 acre tract located
                  at 7426 U.S. 42 from Suburban Residential Two (SR-2)to Office One (O-1).
O-16-03  8-5-03   Rezoning an approximate 9.96 acre tract located at 961 Burlington Pike
                  from Suburban Residential Two (SR-2) to Commercial Services (C-3).
O-28-03  10-21-03 Rezoning an approximate 8.40 acre site located at 7004 Old Hopeful Road
                  from Residential One Family (R1F) to Suburban Residential One (SR-1).
O-04-04  2-24-04  Rezoning a 0.30 acre site located at 8213 Pleasant Valley Road from
                  Agricultural Estate (A-2) to Suburban Residential One (SR-1).
O-05-04  2-24-04  Rezoning a 0.30 acre site located at 8205 Pleasant Valley Road from
                  Agricultural Estate (A-2) to Suburban Residential One (SR-1).
                  Rezoning approximately 15.3 acres located on the north side of Clarkston
O-07-04  3-16-04  Lane, West of U.S. Highway 42 from Suburban Estates (RSE) to Suburban
                  Residential One (SR-1).
                  Rezoning approximately 14.9816 acres located on the west of Fowler Creek
O-08-04  3-16-04  Road and east of St. Louis Boulevard from Rural Suburban Estates (RSE)
                  to Suburban Residential One (SR-1)
                  Rezoning approximately 5.2 acres from Rural Suburban/Union Neighborhood
O-16-04  5-25-04  Office (UNO) to Urban Residential One/Planned Development (UR-1/PD);
                  rezoning approximately 8.7 acres from Rural Suburban/Union Neighborhood
                  Office (UNO) to Union Commercial/Planned Development (UC/PD).
                  Rezoning approximately 33.8 acres from Suburban Residential One/Planned
                  Development (SR-1/PD) to Suburban Residential Two/Planned Development
O-22-05  9-27-05  (SR-2/PD), located on the west side of Hopeful Church Road between the
                  properties at 7375 and 7393 Hopeful Church Road, across Hopeful Church
                  Road from the Hopeful Church Road/Surfwood Drive intersection, and at
                  the southern terminus of Meadow Wood Drive.
                  Rezoning an approximate 9,450 square foot site from Commercial Services
O-24-05  10-11-05 (C-3) to Commercial Two (C-2) located at 6711 Dixie Highway (Koenig/
                  Wickelhaus property).
                  Amending zoning map to establish a special sign district for property
O-25-05  10-11-05 zoned Commercial Services (C-3) consisting of approximately 10 acres
                  located at 949 Burlington Pike (The Mountain Agency property).
                  Rezoning approximately 3.12 acres from Recreation (R) to Urban
O-28-05  12-13-05 Residential One (UR-1) located at 31 Dortha Avenue and along the north
                  side of Banklick Street across from the Banklick Street/Honeysuckle
                  Drive intersection (Jones/Fitzgerald property).
                  Rezoning a 0.24 acre site from Public Facilities (PF) to Suburban
O-10-06  5-23-06  Residential Two (SR-2) located west of the property at 6712 Highridge
                  Avenue and north of the Fellowship of Believers Church at 6800 Hazel
                  Court (Crown Homes, Inc.).
                  Rezoning a 0.68 acre portion of the approximate 4.3 acres site from
O-12-06  6-13-06  Residential One Fammily (R1F) to Commercial Tow (C-2) located at 7232
                  Burlington Pike (Kentucky Motor Service, Inc. property).
                  Amending zoning map for a 2.33 acre site located at 7901 Mall Road to
O-20-06  8-15-06  establish a special sign district in a Commercial Two (C-2) zone to
                  allow alternative signage (Mall Road Shoppes of Florence, LLC property).
                  Amending zoning map for a 0.8613 acre site generally located on the
O-23-06  9-12-06  southeast corner of U.S. 42/Dilcrest Drive intersection to rezone the
                  site from Residential One Family (R1F) to Professional Office One (O-
                  1A)(Eighteen, Ltd./Helmer property).
                  Amending zoning map from Union Commercial (UC) to Union Commercial/
                  Planned Development (UC/PD) for a 2.5 acre site located at 8810 U.S.
O-26-06  10-24-06 Highway 42 and along the east side of Bowman Way, subject to a concept
                  development plan and other agreed conditions (Terrace Development Co.
                  property).
                  Amending zoning map for a 2.8 acre site generally located on the
                  northeast side of Turfway Road, immediately to the northwest of the
                  building at 7650 Turfway Road (Danbarry Theater) and across the street
O-29-06  12-19-06 from the property at 7659 Turfway Road, to rezone this site from
                  Reclamation/Planned Development (R/PD) to Industrial One/Planned
                  Development (I-1/PD) (Northern Kentucky Association of Realtors, Inc./
                  Kentucky Wayturf, LLC property).
                  Amending zoning map for 3.84 acre site generally located on the
                  northeast corner of the Turfway Road/Thoroughbred Boulevard intersection
O-30-06  12-19-06 and immediately to the northwest of the building at 7484 Turfway Road
                  (Tumbleweed Restaurant) to rezone this site from Recreation/Planned
                  Development (R/PD) to Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD)
                  Wayturf, LLC property).
                  Amending zoning map for a 24 acre site located at 7380 Turfway Road (St.
                  Luke's West) to establish a Special Sign District in a Public
O-24-07  10-23-07 Facilities/Planned Development (PF/PD) Zone to allow free-standing and
                  directional signage (Atlantic Signs, Inc. - Turfway Ltd. Partnership
                  property).
                  Amending zoning map for 11.9 acre site generally located along the west
                  side of Hopeful Church Road and the south side of Cayton Road at 1700
O-6-08   4-28-08  Charleston Court and 995 Cayton Road from Recreation (R), Rural Suburban
                  (RS), Suburban Residential One (SR-1) and Urban Residential One (UR-1)
                  to Urban Residential One/Planned Development (UR-1/PD) (Cayton/Pentagon
                  Management property).
O-3-              Amending the zoning map for an approximated 12 acre site located at 6050
10    6-8-10   Hopeful Church Road in a Commercial Services (C-3) Zone to allow
                  alternative building mounted signage (Kerry Toyota Property).
                  Amending the zoning map to establish a special sign district for a 3.05
O-8-     7-13-10  acre site located at 7905 Freedom Way (Holiday Inn) in a Commercial
10             Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) to allow alternative signage
                  (Holiday Inn Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment changing from Office One/
O-5-11   4-19-11  Planned Development (O-1/PD) to Office Two/Planned Development (O-2/PD),
                  for an 8.95 acre site located at 1090 Vandercar Way (ECE, Inc./Rolling
                  Hills Crossing, LLC Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment to establish a special
O-6-12   4-10-12  sign district for an approximate 3.3. acre site located at 8025 Action
                  Boulevard, Florence in a Commercial Services (C-3) Zone to allow
                  alternative signage.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment to establish a special
O-8-12   5-8-12   sign district for property zoned Commercial Two (C-2) for an approximate
                  11.5 acre site located at 7619 - 7647 Mall Road, Florence to allow
                  alternative signage.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
O-4-     4-9-13   district for a 6.78 acre site located at 7221, 7301, and 7303 Dixie
13             Highway, in the Public Faciilities (PF) and Commercial Two (C-2) zones,
                  to allow alternative signage (St. Paul Parish Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for an approximate 4.0576
O-6-     5-28-13  acre site located at 8727 U.S. 42, to rezone the site from Commercial
13             Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) to Commercial Two (C-2), with certain
                  variances.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a 1.3425 acre site
                  located generally at the terminus of Utterback Road approximately 130
O-7-     5-28-13  feet west of Hopeful Church Road, and to the immediate north and east of
13             the properties at 8820 and 8830 Boone Valley Drive, to rezone the site
                  from Suburban Residential One/Planned Development (SR-1/PD) to
                  Residential One Family (RIF) (Butler Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a zone change from
O-14-13  10-29-13 Suburban Residential Two (SR-2) to Commerical Two (C-2) for a 1.8986
                  acre site located at 7502 Dixie Highway (Morning Star Partners, LLC/John
                  Reynolds & Suzanna Toll Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
                  district in a Commercial Two/Planned Development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/
O-18-14  7-1-14   PD/MR) zone for a 66.75 acre site located at 8100 U.S. 42 and the
                  southeast corner of the Mall Road/ Heights Boulevard intersection, to
                  allow alternative signage (Anchor Properties/Berkshire Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from Suburban Residential
                  One (SR-1) to Commercial Two Planned Development (C-2/PD) for a 5.291
O-30-14  1-13-15  acre site located on the east side of Gunpowder Road, approximately 230
                  feet south of the U.S. 42/Gunpowder Road intersection, and to the south
                  fo the property at 85 37 U.S. 42, to allow two commercial office
                  buildings.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
                  district in a commercial two/planned development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/
                  PD/MR) zone for a 9.91 acre site (Lot 4, Florence Heights Subdivision)
O-3-15   2-17-15  generally located along the south and west sides of the Heights
                  Boulevard/ Mall Road intersection, approximately 335 feet southeast of
                  the property at 828 Heights Boulevard, and approximately 290 feet north
                  of the property at 8072, 8074, 8076, 8078, and 8080 U.S. 42, to allow
                  alternate signage (Dave and Buster’s Inc. Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
O-4-              district in a commercial two/planned development/ Mall Road overlay (C-
15    2-17-15  2/PD/MR) zone for a 11.58 acre site located at 828 Heights Boulevard, to
                  allow a digital message board to be installed on an existing pylon sign
                  (Tommy Reed/Crossroads Community Church, Inc. Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from commercial two/
                  planned development/Houston- Donaldson study corridor overlay (C-2/PD/
                  HDO) to office two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study corridor
O-5-     5-10-16  overlay (0-2/PD/HDO) for a 3.0236 acre site generally located on the
16             north side of Merchants Street between the properties at 5885 and 5915
                  Merchants Street, and on the east side of Seligman Drive to the
                  immediate north of the property at 5915 Merchants Street, to allow a
                  hotel and uses permitted by the current concept development plan.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from commercial two (C-2)
                  to commercial two/small community (C-2/SC) for an approximate 0.68 acre
O6-16    6-14-16  site located at 12 Girard Street, to allow the property to be used as a
                  single family residence in addition to C-2 uses (K. Barr Investments,
                  LLC Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
O-7-     6-14-16  district in a commercial one (C-1) zone for a 2.96 acre site located at
16             7607 Dixie Highway, to allow the addition of electronic message boards
                  on a freestanding sign (Healthpoint Family Care Inc. Property).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from commercial two (C-2)
                  to urban residential two (UR- 2) for an approximate 9.7 acre site
                  generally located on the south/west side of Weaver Road across from
O-13-16  9-13-16  Saddlebrook Lane, on the south and east sides of Evergreen Drive, to the
                  northwest of the property 957 Weaver Road, to the north and east of the
                  property at 8912 Evergreen Drive, and to the east of the properties at
                  8930 and 8940 Evergreen Drive, to allow attached ranch style rental
                  units (Buckeye Properties LLC Property).
                  Adopting a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
O-6-     4-4-17   commercial two/planned development/Mall Road overlay (C-2/PD/MR) zone
17             for a 0.71 acre site located at 7550 Mall Road, to allow a freestanding
                  sign with an electronic message center (Guardian Savings Bank).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from commercial two/planned development
                  (C-2/PD) to urban residential two/commercial two/planned development
                  (UR-2/C-2/PD) for a 0.518 acre tract located on the northeast corner of
                  Gunpowder Road/Bill Wentz Drive and a 3.635 acre tract located on the
                  southeast corner of Gunpowder Road/Bill Wentz Drive, to allow a
O-8-              residential apartment development in addition to previously approved
17    6-6-17   commercial uses (Episcopal Retirement Services Affordable Living, LLC/
                  James L. Morgan and Sherry A. Morgan); and approving a change in an
                  approved concept development plan in a commercial two/planned
                  development (C-2/PD) zone for an approximate 3.46 acre site located at
                  8537 U.S. 42 (south side of Bill Wentz Drive), to allow an outdoor
                  restaurant seating area and parking/vehicle area changes. (Viox & Viox,
                  Inc./Covington Shopping Center, LLC).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Office One/Planned Development/
                  Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor Overly (O-1/PD/HDO) to Office Two/
O-15-17  11-14-17 Planned Development/Houston- Donaldson Study Corridor Overlay (O-2/PD/
                  HDO) for an approximate 2.15 acre tract generally located on the
                  southeast corner of the Vandercar Way/Seligman Drive intersection
                  (Devesh Patel/BBL Development, LLC).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Office One/Planned Development/
                  Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor Overly (O-1/PD/HDO) to Office Two/
                  Planned Development/ Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor Overlay (O-2/PD/
O-2-18   2-27-18  HDO) for an approximate 2.8 acre site located on the South/West side of
                  Ted Bushelman Boulevard between the property at 3125 Ted Bushelman
                  Boulevard (Florence Fire Department) and 7300 Woodspoint Drive (Bridge
                  Point Center) to allow a hotel and other uses permitted in the O-2 and
                  C-2 zones (BBWAJ Partnership Property).
                  Approving two changes in an approved concept development plan in a
                  Commercial Two/Planned Development/ Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor
                  Overlay (C-2/PDHDO) Zone for a 6.237 acre site including the tracts at
O-3-18   2-27-18  7484 and 7492 Turfway Road, and the 0.472 acre vacant tract in between
                  the properties at 7484 and 7492 Turfway Road to allow an additional
                  hotel and increase the building intensity for the existing hotel at 7492
                  Turfway Road by reducing the lot size, and modifying previous conditions
                  fo approval (SHIHASI).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Suburban Residential One (SR-1) to
                  Public Facilities (PF) for a 14.86 acre site located on the east side of
O-1-19   1-22-19  Gunpowder Road, south of U.S. 42, adjacent to the city limits, to allow
                  memory care, assisted living and senior housing (Berling/Dryden
                  Property).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
O-13-19  6-25-19  Commercial Two/Planned Development (C-2/PD) Zone for a 0.8102 acre site
                  located on the southeast corner of the U.S. 42/Express Street
                  intersection, to allow alternative signage (Starbucks).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
O-13-20  10-27-20 Commercial Services/Planned Development/Mall Road Overlay (C-3/PD/MR)
                  Zone for an approximate 3.3 acre site located at 8025 Action Boulevard,
                  to allow an existing roof mounted sign to remain.
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Commercial Two/Planned
                  Development/Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor Overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) to
                  Urban Residential Two/Planned Development/Houston-Donaldson Study
O-14-20  11-10-20 Corridor Overlay (UR-2/PD/HDO) for a 20.484 acre site located on the
                  northwest corner of the Houston Road/Turfway Access/Charles R. Callen
                  Drive intersection, and north of the property at 4885 Houston Road, to
                  allow a multi-family residential development (Arlington Properties,
                  LLC).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Suburban Residential One (SR-1) to
                  Commercial Services (C-3) for a 2.735 acre site located on the west side
O-15-20  11-24-20 of Hopeful Church Road and approximately 30 feet north of the Hopeful
                  Church Road/Chancellor Court intersection (6136 Hopeful Church Road),
                  Boone County, Kentucky (annexation pending), to allow an expansion of an
                  existing automobile dealership (Kerry Toyota).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Public Facilities/Planned
                  Development/Parkway Corridor Study Overlay (PF/PD/PO) to Commercial Two/
                  Planned Development Parkway Corridor Study Overlay (C-2/PD/PO) for the
O-10-21  6-22-21  approximate 1.06 acre site located at 8275 Ewing Boulevard, to allow
                  medical, dental, optical and veterinary clinics and professional office
                  uses that provide medical, dental, optical and veterinary administrative
                  services in an existing building (City of Florence).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Suburban Residential Two/Parkway
                  Corridor Study Overlay (SR- 2/PO) to Commercial Two/Planned Development/
                  Parkway Corridor Study Overlay (C-2/ PD/PO) for the northern,
                  approximate 1.3 acres of the property located at 7544 Burlington Pike;
O-11-21  8-24-21  and a concept development plan in a Commercial Two/Planned Development/
                  Parkway Corridor Study Overlay (C- 2/PD/PO) zone for the southern,
                  approximate 1.23 acres of the property located at 7544 Burlington Pike
                  to allow an eating and drinking establishment, dog park, and food truck
                  parking (Marshall Land Management, LLC).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Suburban Residential One (SR-1) to
                  Suburban Residential Two/Planned Development for the 3.0733 acre site
                  located on the north/east side of Weaver Road, approximately 520 feet
                  south of the Weaver Road/Ascot Drive intersection, to the immediate
                  south of the properties at 15 through 21 Tattersall Lane, and to the
                  immediate west of the properties at 901 through 923 Dapple Grey Drive
O-17-21  9-14-21  (annexation pending); and for the request of the Drees Company - Matt
                  Mains (applicant) for Weaver Road Properties, LLC (Owners) for a zoning
                  map amendment from Suburban Residential One (SR-1) and Suburban
                  Residential Two (SR-2) to Suburban Residential Two/Planned Development
                  (SR-2/PD) for the 16.5410 acre site located at 903 Evergreen Drive
                  (annexation pending) to allow attached and detached dwelling units
                  (Weaver Road Properties, LLC).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
O-1-22   2-8-     Recreation/Planned Development/Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor Overlay
         22    (R/PD/HDO) Zone for an approximate 196.5 acre site located at 7500
                  Turfway Road to allow alternative signage (City of Florence).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment from Commercial Services (C-3) to
O-13-22  6-28-22  Commercial Services/Planned Development (C-3/PD) for the approximate
                  5.24 acre site located at 8050 and 8053 Holiday Drive to allow a used
                  auto sales and service facility (CarMax).
                  Approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
                  Commercial Two/Planned Development/Houston-Donaldson Study Corridor
O-14-22  7-12-22  Overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) District for an approximate 2.4 acre site located
                  at 4885 Houston Road to allow an off-site free-standing sign (City of
                  Florence).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
                  district in a commercial two/planned development/Houston-Donaldson study
O-3-23   2-14-23  corridor overlay (C-2/PD/HDO) District for an approximate 1.2 acre site
                  located at 4911 Houston Road to allow projector lights, flood lights and
                  two non-functional vintage gasoline pumps (Ford’s Garage).
                  Adopting and approving, with conditions, a request of Vision
                  Engineering, LLC, per Jihad Hillany (applicant) for City of Florence
O-4-23   2-28-23  (owner) for a zoning map amendment for a special sign district in a
                  recreational/planned development /Houston-Donaldson study corridor
                  overlay (R/PD/HDO) for an approximate 196.5 acre site located at 7500
                  Turfway Road to allow for an electronic message board/screen.
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment for a special sign
                  district in a suburban residential two (SR-2) and office one (O-1)
O-5-23   3-28-23  District for an approximate 20.7 acre site located at 7216 US 42 to
                  allow a free standing sign having an electronic message board/panel
                  (Heritage Fellowship).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from commercial two (C-2)
O-14-    5-9-23   to suburban residential two (SR-2) for the approximate 0.48 acre site
2023              located at 7309 Dixie Highway to allow the existing building to be used
                  as a single-family home for rental (Banklick Real Estate Holdings, LLC).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from union commercial/
O-19-             planned development (UC/PD) to urban residential one/planned development
2023     7-11-23  (UR-1/PD) for an approximate 0.5 acre site located at 2011 Terrace Court
                  to allow the development of six attached single-family residential units
                  (Terrace Townhomes, LLC).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from agricultural estate
                  (A-2) to suburban residential one (SR-1) for the approximate 3.9 acre
O-30-    11-14-23 site located at 8269 Pleasant Valley Road, including the adjoining
2023              parcel having a parcel identification number (PIDN) of 062.00-00-008.25
                  to allow for future subdivision of the property into smaller residential
                  lots (Dan Hughes).
                  Adopting and approving a zoning map amendment from suburban residential
                  one (SR-1) to urban residential one (UR-1) for an approximate 28 acre
O-19-             area located along the east side of Gunpowder Road, including the
2024     11-19-24 property at 9104-9108 Gunpowder Road and the property having a parcel
                  identification number (PIDN) of 062.00-00-120.00 to allow for the
                  development of a 284 unit multi-family residential development (BBB
                  Developers LLC/KPD Developers, LLC).
                 
 
TABLE XIV: MUNICIPAL LAND TRANSFERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Declaring the transfer of a parcel of the incorporated
O-10-97  4-22-97     property of the City of Florence to the City of Union and
                     a transfer of a parcel of the incorporated property of the
                     City of Union to the City of Florence.
                    
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Ky. Constitution § 228 31.01
15.404                  32.02
39A.010                 41.01
39A.020                 41.01
39A.030                 41.01
39A.100(3)              41.01
41.240(4)               42.08
Ch. 58                  33.62
61.300                  91.02
61.592                  34.02
                        35.03,
61.870-61.884           43.61,
                        111.12,
                        122.06
61.870                  35.02
61.870(1)(h)            35.02
61.872- 61.884          43.19
61.872                  35.03(B)
61.874                  35.03(B)
61.878                  35.04
61.880                  35.03(B)
61.880(1)               35.03,
                        35.04
61.882                  35.03(B)
64.5278                 31.02
65.003                  43.03
65.003(3)               43.03
65.210 et seq.          43.05
65.260(2)               40.02
65.300                  40.02
                        33.71,
65.8801 - 65.8839       33.83,
                        54.53,
                        121.99
65.8805                 102.02
65.8815(5)              33.74
65.8835                 33.82
66.480                  42.01,
                        42.03
67.750 - 67.790         110.12,
                        110.99
67.753                  110.12
74.420- 74.520          33.60,
                        33.61
74.490                  33.62
Ch. 78                  31.02
78.510- 78.852          34.02
78.530(3)               34.02
78.530(3)(c)            37.02
78.531(1) and (2)       34.02
81.770(4)               Ch. 154, Appendix
82.082                  43.03,
                        155.01
Ch. 83A                 31.02
83A.050                 31.15
                        98.25,
83A.060(5)              98.40,
                        154.01
83A.060(7)              35.05
83A.060(9)              30.04,
                        35.05
                        Ch. 73, Schs.
                        IV,
                        VI,
                        98.99,
83A.065(2)              111.99,
                        116.99,
                        117.99,
                        119.99,
                        133.99
83A.075                 31.16
83A.080                 31.02
83A.080(1)              31.25
83A.087                 32.23
83A.130(5)              30.05
83A.170                 31.15
85.140                  Ch. 90,
                        90.01
85.150                  112.11
85.180                  Ch. 91
85.190                  151.01
85.220                  110.03
91A.060                 42.01,
                        42.03
91A.070                 37.08
91.484 - 91.527         37.08
91A.080(10), (13),      113.03 (14), (15)
91A.200 - 91A.290       39.01(A)
91A.220(3)              39.01(A)
91A.260                 39.01(B)
91A.280(1)              39.02,
                        39.03
Ch. 95                  34.02
97.010 - 97.050         Ch. 96
                        33.15,
Ch. 100                 33.16,
                        150.01,
                        153.12
103.200 - 103.285       38.02(A)
131.190                 35.04
Ch. 136                 120.39
136.575                 37.09
136.575(4)              37.09
137.410                 112.12
141.120                 110.11
141.350                 110.11
141.407                 110.11
Ch. 151                 155.10
151.250                 155.10,
                        155.11
Ch. 154                 35.04
154.24.010 - 154.24.160 110.11
Ch. 154A                111.11
164.945 - 164.947       95.01
186.020                 70.28(C)
186.042                 70.06
189.010(19)             72.02
189.0101(4)             116.01
189.190                 90.15
189.221                 90.15
189.222                 90.15
189.394                 Ch. 73, Sch. I (B)
189.456                 70.06
189.920(3)              32.03
190.030(7)              118.01
Ch. 198B                151.14
Title XX                Ch. 111
Ch. 218A                111.11
218A.010 - 218A.1444    102.02
218A.140 et seq.        119.02
Ch. 218B                122.04
218B.010 et seq.        122.04
218B.080                122.02
218B.085                122.02
218B.090                122.02
218B.090(a)             122.06
218B.090(b)             122.06
218B.140                122.04,
                        122.07
Ch. 219                 111.01
222.202                 102.02
224.290(4)              111.09
224.905 - 224.970       90.16
Ch. 227                 98.18,
                        98.20
                        151.01,
227.200 - 227.410       151.21,
                        152.02,
                        152.99(A)
227.300                 152.01
227.702                 98.15
227.702(1)              98.15,
                        98.17
227.702(2), (3)         98.15,
                        98.19
227.715(11)             98.19
Ch. 230                 111.01
Ch. 238                 111.11
                        102.02,
Chs. 241 - 244          111.01,
                        111.11
241.030                 111.01
241.100                 111.11
241.200                 111.11,
                        111.12
Ch. 242                 111.01
243.0305                111.01
243.036                 111.11
243.070                 111.03
243.450(1)(b)           111.11
244.290                 111.09
Ch. 252                 91.40
273.161 - 273.390       39.20
311.340                 95.02
314.111                 95.01
Ch. 337                 31.02
Ch. 350                 155.10
Ch. 355                 72.02,
                        72.06
383.500 - 383.715       97.01
Ch. 386                 10.04
Ch. 386A                10.04
403.720                 102.02
Ch. 424                 35.05
424.260                 36.01
431.015                 32.23
446.010(6)              10.04
446.010(8)              10.04
446.010(26)             10.04
446.010(27)             10.04
446.010(30)             10.04
446.010(33)             10.04
446.010(36)             10.04
446.010(39)             10.04
506.120                 119.02
507.020                 102.02
507.030                 102.02
507.040                 102.02
507.050                 102.02
508.010 - 508.160       102.02
510.010 - 510.155       102.02
510.040                 119.02
510.050                 119.02
510.060                 119.02
510.070                 119.02
510.080                 119.02
510.090                 119.02
510.100                 133.02
510.110                 119.02
510.120                 119.02
510.130                 119.02
510.140                 119.02
510.148                 119.02
510.150                 119.02
517.050                 119.02
519.010 - 519.070       102.02
520.090 - 520.130       102.02
523.100                 102.02,
                        122.04
523.110                 102.02
525.010                 102.02,
                        33.01
525.060                 102.02
525.070 - 525.080       102.02
525.100                 102.02
527.010 - 527.210       102.02
Ch. 528                 102.02
529.010 - 529.110       102.02
529.020                 119.02
529.040                 119.02
529.050                 119.02
529.070                 119.02
530.060 - 530.080       102.02
531.010 - 531.110       102.02
531.020                 119.02
531.030                 119.02
531.040                 119.02
531.300 - 531.370       102.02,
                        119.02
532.090                 130.99(B)
                        96.99,
                        98.99,
                        100.99,
                        101.99,
532.090(1)              102.99,
                        111.99,
                        116.99,
                        117.99,
                        133.99
534.040                 130.99(C)
534.040(2)              96.99
                        98.99,
                        102.99,
534.040(2)(a)           111.99,
                        116.99,
                        117.99,
                        133.99
                        Ch. 73,
534.040(2)(c)           Schs. IV,
                        VI
Ch. 600 - 645           100.20
610.20 - 610.280        100.20
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
RES. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
R-13-96  - -         155.18,
                     155.19
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
ORD. NO.   DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
O-1-1897   3-1-1897    91.16
O-14-1897  10-15-1897  T.S.O. VII
O-18-01    12-12-01    T.S.O. VII
O-33-12    5-11-12     T.S.O. IX
O-34-12    5-9-12      T.S.O. IX
O-35-12    5-19-12     T.S.O. IX
O-36-12    5-11-12     T.S.O. IX
O-38-12    8-5-12      90.21
O-45-16    8-7-16      T.S.O. VII
O-54-19    5-5-19      T.S.O. IX
O-69-29    9-10-29     T.S.O. IX
O-69B-29   9-10-29     T.S.O. VIII
O-70-30    - -30       T.S.O. I
O-74-30    7-1-30      T.S.O. VIII
O-75-30    7-1-30      T.S.O. VIII
O-76-30    7-1-30      T.S.O. IX
O-77-30    7-1-30      T.S.O. IX
O-79-31    2-3-31      T.S.O. I
O-81-31    5-5-31      T.S.O. VIII
O-82-31    5-5-31      T.S.O. VIII
O-83-31    5-5-31      T.S.O. IX
O-84-31    5-5-31      T.S.O. IX
O-90-31    9-1-31      T.S.O. IX
O-93-31    11-3-31     T.S.O. I
O-105-33   - -33       T.S.O. I
O-115-34   8-7-34      T.S.O. XII
O-125-36   5-5-36      T.S.O. IX
O-148-38   9-13-38     112.01-
                       112.05
O-150-38   - -38       T.S.O. I
O-151-39   1-24-39     T.S.O. I
O-162-40   - -40       T.S.O. I
O-164-41   5-27-41     T.S.O. VIII
O-165-41   5-27-41     T.S.O. IX
O-166-41   5-27-41     T.S.O. XII
O-169-41   10-14-41    T.S.O. IX
O-176-42   8-22-42     T.S.O. VIII
O-177-42   8-22-42     T.S.O. IX
O-178-42   8-22-42     T.S.O. VIII
O-179-42   8-22-42     T.S.O. IX
O-181-43   11-23-43    T.S.O. IX
O-182-43   11-23-43    T.S.O. IX
O-183-44   2-8-44      90.01 -
                       90.03
O-185-44   12-1-44     T.S.O. XII
O-188-46   5-29-46     T.S.O. VIII
O-189-46   5-29-46     T.S.O. IX
O-190-46   8-13-46     T.S.O. IX
O-191-46   8-13-46     T.S.O. VIII
O-193-46   10-1-46     T.S.O. IX
O-194-46   10-1-46     T.S.O. IX
O-195-46   10-1-46     T.S.O. IX
O-196-47   3-11-47     T.S.O. IX
O-198-47   5-13-47     T.S.O. IX
O-199-47   5-13-47     T.S.O. I
O-201-47   10-14-47    T.S.O. VIII
O-202-47   - -47       T.S.O. I
O-204-47   12-9-47     T.S.O. I
O-206-48   3-23-48     T.S.O. VIII
O-207-48   4-13-48     T.S.O. IX
O-213-49   5-10-49     T.S.O. VII
O-214-49   5- -49      T.S.O. XI
O-215-49   12-13-49    T.S.O. XI
O-217-50   - -50       T.S.O. I
O-219-50   7-27-50     T.S.O. I
O-229-51   11-13-51    T.S.O. I
O-230-51   11-13-51    T.S.O. I
O-231-51   11-13-51    T.S.O. I
O-232-52   4-8-52      T.S.O. XI
O-236-52   6-16-52     T.S.O. IX
O-237-52   6-27-52     T.S.O. IX
O-238-52   7-12-52     T.S.O. I
O-239-52   7-12-52     T.S.O. I
O-242-52   8-28-52     T.S.O. I
O-243-52   10-14-52    T.S.O. I
O-245-52   10-23-52    90.10
O-247-52   12-29-52    T.S.O. IX
O-248-53   1-13-53     T.S.O. IX
O-252-53   2-24-53     T.S.O. IX
O-253-53   2-24-53     T.S.O. I
O-254-53   4-28-53     T.S.O. IX
O-255-53   4-14-53     T.S.O. I
O-256-53   4-28-53     T.S.O. IX
O-258-53   6-9-53      T.S.O. IX
O-260-53   6-23-53     T.S.O. IX
O-262-53   9-22-53     T.S.O. IX
O-263-53   9-22-53     T.S.O. IX
O-264-53   9-22-53     T.S.O. IX
O-266-53   10-27-53    T.S.O. IX
O-267-53   10-13-53    T.S.O. I
O-268-53   10-13-53    T.S.O. I
O-270-53   11-24-53    T.S.O. IX
O-272-53   11-24-53    T.S.O. I
O-273-53   11-24-53    T.S.O. I
O-277-54   2-9-54      T.S.O. IX
O-278-54   2-23-54     T.S.O. IX
O-280-54   11-24-53    T.S.O. IX
O-282-54   5-11-54     T.S.O. IX
O-283-54   5-11-54     T.S.O. IX
O-284-54   6-8-54      T.S.O. IX
O-290-54   7-27-54     T.S.O. VII
O-292-54   9-14-54     T.S.O. XI
O-293-54   9-15-54     T.S.O. I
O-298-54   11-23-54    T.S.O. IX
O-299-54   11-23-54    T.S.O. I
O-303-55   1-11-55     T.S.O. IX
O-304-55   1-11-55     T.S.O. I
O-307-55   3-12-55     T.S.O. I
O-308-55   4-12-55     T.S.O. IX
O-311-55   6-14-55     T.S.O. I
O-313-55   6-19-55     T.S.O. IX
O-314-55   7-19-55     T.S.O. IX
O-315-55   7-19-55     T.S.O. IX
O-316A-55  - -55       T.S.O. XI
O-317-55   6-21-55     T.S.O. I
O-321-55   11-25-55    T.S.O. IX
O-322-55   11-25-55    T.S.O. IX
O-323-55   12-13-55    T.S.O. IX
O-324-55   12-13-55    T.S.O. IX
O-325-55   12-13-55    T.S.O. IX
O-326-55   12-13-55    T.S.O. IX
O-329-56   3-16-56     T.S.O. IX
O-329a-56  3-16-56     T.S.O. IX
O-330-56   2-14-56     T.S.O. I
O-334-56   4-17-56     T.S.O. I
O-336-56   5-8-56      T.S.O. IX
O-336-A-56 5-22-56     90.16
O-338-56   5-22-56     T.S.O. I
O-340-56   6-12-56     T.S.O. I
O-344-56   7-24-56     T.S.O. IX
O-347-56   9-20-56     T.S.O. IX
O-348-56   9-20-56     T.S.O. IX
O-353-56   10-23-56    T.S.O. IX
O-354-56   10-23-56    T.S.O. IX
O-355-56   11-13-56    T.S.O. IX
O-356-56   11-13-56    T.S.O. I
O-357-56   11-13-56    T.S.O. I
O-393-56   6-10-56     T.S.O. IX
O-360-57   1-8-57      T.S.O. I
O-361-57   1-8-57      T.S.O. I
O-365-57   5-14-57     T.S.O. IX
O-369-57   5-14-57     T.S.O. I
O-372-57   6-11-57     T.S.O. IX
O-374-57   6-11-57     T.S.O. II
O-378-57   - -57       T.S.O. I
O-379-57   10-8-57     T.S.O. IX
O-380-57   12-3-57     T.S.O. IX
O-382-57   12-3-57     T.S.O. II
O-388-58   4-8-58      T.S.O. IX
O-394-58   6-10-58     T.S.O. IX
                       111.02,
                       111.03(A),
O-5-58     7-22-58     111.05 -
                       111.08,
                       111.99
O-9-58     9-9-58      T.S.O. IX
O-15-58    12-9-58     T.S.O. II
O-16-58    12-9-58     T.S.O. II
O-17-58    12-9-58     T.S.O. II
O-18-58    12-9-58     T.S.O. II
O-19-58    12-9-58     T.S.O. II
O-20-58    12-23-58    T.S.O. IX
O-22-59    1-13-59     T.S.O. IX
O-23-59    1-13-59     T.S.O. I
O-31-59    4-14-59     T.S.O. IX
O-35-59    5-26-59     T.S.O. IX
O-39-59    - -59       T.S.O. IX
O-40-59    6-23-59     T.S.O. IX
O-45-59    7-14-59     T.S.O. IX
O-46-59    7-28-59     T.S.O. IX
O-47-59    7-28-59     T.S.O. IX
O-49-59    10-27-59    T.S.O. IX
O-50-59    11-10-59    T.S.O. I
O-51-59    11-10-59    T.S.O. II
O-52-59    11-24-59    T.S.O. IX
O-53-59    12-8-59     T.S.O. IX
O-54-59    12-22-59    T.S.O. IX
O-56-59    12-8-59     T.S.O. II
O-58-59    1-12-60     T.S.O. IX
O-59-59    1-12-60     T.S.O. IX
O-60-60    1-18-60     T.S.O. XII
O-63-60    1-23-60     T.S.O. IX
O-64-60    5-24-60     111.09
                       110.01,
                       110.03,
O-67-60    6-30-60     110.05,
                       110.08,
                       110.99
O-72-60    8-23-60     T.S.O. XI
O-74-60    10-11-60    T.S.O. IX
O-77-60    12-13-60    T.S.O. IX
O-78-60    12-27-60    T.S.O. XII
O-83-61    3-3-61      T.S.O. I
O-89-60    - -60       T.S.O. I
O-90-61    - -61       T.S.O. XI
O-94-61    - -61       T.S.O. I
O-96-61    - -61       T.S.O. III
O-124-62   - -62       T.S.O. XII
O-129-62   8-14-62     T.S.O. IX
O-134-62   11-13-62    T.S.O. IX
O-144-63   2-26-63     T.S.O. VIII
O-149-63   6-11-63     T.S.O. IX
O-150-63   6-11-63     T.S.O. IX
O-152-63   7-9-63      T.S.O. IX
O-153-63   6-15-63     T.S.O. III
O-154-63   6-26-63     T.S.O. XII
O-155-63   7-9-63      T.S.O. XII
O-157-63   9-10-63     T.S.O. IX
O-158-63   9-17-63     T.S.O. IX
O-161-63   - -63       T.S.O. I
O-164-63   - -63       T.S.O. I
O-165-63   10-22-63    T.S.O. IX
O-167-63   11-26-63    T.S.O. IX
O-168-63   11-26-63    T.S.O. XII
O-169-63   11-26-63    T.S.O. I
O-170-63   11-26-63    Ch. 152
                       151.01 -
                       151.10,
O-171-63   12-17-63    151.30 -
                       151.39,
                       151.99(A)
O-173-64   1-14-64     T.S.O. III
O-178-64   2-11-64     T.S.O. IX
O-180-64   2-25-64     T.S.O. III
O-181-64   3-30-64     T.S.O. XII
O-183-64   4-30-64     T.S.O. XII
O-184-64   3-30-64     T.S.O. III
O-191-64   6-23-64     110.05,
                       110.99
O-196-64   9-8-64      T.S.O. IX
O-197-64   8-27-64     T.S.O. III
O-198-64   9-22-64     T.S.O. IX
O-206-64   12-8-64     151.13
O-207-64   12-22-64    T.S.O. IX
O-211-65   3-11-65     T.S.O. IX
O-218-65   4-20-65     T.S.O. I
O-219-65   4-20-65     T.S.O. I
O-220-65   4-20-65     T.S.O. I
O-221-65   4-20-65     T.S.O. III
O-223-65   5-11-65     T.S.O. IX
O-224-65   5-25-65     T.S.O. IX
O-228-65   6-22-65     T.S.O. IX
O-233-65   7-28-65     T.S.O. III
O-240-65   10-12-65    T.S.O. I
O-245-65   11-23-65    T.S.O. IX
O-246-65   11-23-65    T.S.O. XI
O-248-65   12-14-65    T.S.O. IX
O-249-66   1-11-66     T.S.O. IX
O-258-66   - -66       T.S.O. III
O-259-66   - -66       T.S.O. I
O-260-66   - -66       T.S.O. I
O-261-66   - -66       T.S.O. I
O-262-66   5-24-66     T.S.O. XI
O-263-66   5-25-66     T.S.O. III
O-266-66   6-28-66     T.S.O. IX
O-267-66   7-5-66      T.S.O. III
O-272-66   8-9-66      T.S.O. XII
O-273-66   8-9-66      T.S.O. XI
O-274-66   8-9-66      T.S.O. XI
O-278-66   - - 66      T.S.O. I
O-279-66   9-27-66     T.S.O. IX
O-281-66   10-11-66    T.S.O. IX
O-285-66   11-9-66     T.S.O. III
O-286-66   11-9-66     T.S.O. XII
O-287-66   11-9-66     T.S.O. I
O-288-66   11-9-66     T.S.O. I
O-293-66   12-13-66    T.S.O. IX
O-294-67   2-14-67     T.S.O. IX
O-295-67   2-28-67     T.S.O. IX
O-302-67   5-9-67      110.05
O-304-67   4-26-67     T.S.O. IX
O-305-67   4-26-67     T.S.O. I
O-306-67   5-24-67     T.S.O. III
O-307-67   6-14-67     T.S.O. III
O-308-67   6-14-67     T.S.O. IX
O-312-67   7-12-67     T.S.O. XI
O-317-67   8-22-67     T.S.O. IX
O-319-67   10-3-67     T.S.O. IX
O-321-67   10-3-67     T.S.O. I
O-322-67   10-3-67     T.S.O. III
O-323-67   10-10-67    T.S.O. III
O-324-67   10-10-67    T.S.O. III
O-325-67   10-25-67    T.S.O. III
O-326-67   11-14-67    T.S.O. IX
O-328-67   11-15-67    T.S.O. III
O-330-67   11-28-67    T.S.O. IX
O-331-67   11-28-67    T.S.O. IX
O-332-67   11-28-67    151.09
O-3-68     1-23-68     T.S.O. XII
O-7-68     2-19-68     T.S.O. XI
O-8-68     2-7-68      T.S.O. IX
O-9-68     3-26-68     T.S.O. I
O-12-68    4-9-68      T.S.O. I
O-13-68    4-23-68     T.S.O. IX
O-17-68    5-15-68     T.S.O. I
O-20-68    5-29-68     T.S.O. I
O-22-68    6-27-68     T.S.O. XII
O-24-68    6-27-68     T.S.O. I
O-26-68    7-25-68     T.S.O. XII
O-31-68    9-3-68      T.S.O. IX
O-33-68    9-10-68     T.S.O. I
O-34-68    - - 68      T.S.O. VII
O-36-68    10-22-68    T.S.O. IX
O-41-68    11-26-68    T.S.O. XII
O-42-68    12-3-68     T.S.O. IX
O-43-68    1-7-69      T.S.O. XII
O-3-69     2-25-69     T.S.O. IX
O-6-69     4-8-69      T.S.O. IX
O-9-69     7-8-69      T.S.O. IX
O-10-69    8-26-69     T.S.O. XII
O-11-69    - - 69      T.S.O. X
O-12-69    9-23-69     T.S.O. IX
O-13-69    10-14-69    T.S.O. IX
O-15-69    10-21-69    T.S.O. IX
O-16-69    10-28-69    T.S.O. IX
O-17-69    10-28-69    T.S.O. XII
O-1-70     1-27-70     T.S.O. IX
O-3-70     2-24-70     T.S.O. IX
O-9-70     6-9-70      T.S.O. I
O-10-70    6-9-70      T.S.O. I
O-12-70    6-9-70      T.S.O. XII
O-15-70    8-25-70     T.S.O. I
O-16-70    8-25-70     T.S.O. VI
O-19-70    9-8-70      T.S.O. IX
O-20-70    9-22-70     T.S.O. IX
O-22-70    10-27-70    T.S.O. IX
O-24-70    11-17-70    T.S.O. IX
O-25-70    11-17-70    T.S.O. I
O-26-70    11-24-70    T.S.O. XII
O-29-70    12-8-70     T.S.O. VI
                       151.20 -
O-1-71     1-26-71     151.24,
                       151.99(B)
O-6-71     3-23-71     T.S.O. IX
O-6A-71    3-23-71     T.S.O. IX
O-8-71     5-11-71     T.S.O. XII
O-16-71    7-13-71     111.05
O-18-71    9-16-71     T.S.O. IX
O-20-71    11-9-71     T.S.O. IX
O-26-71    11-10-71    T.S.O. XII
O-2-72     1-25-72     T.S.O. XI
O-6-72     3-14-72     T.S.O. IX
O-8-72     4-11-72     T.S.O. IX
O-9-72     4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-10-72    4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-11-72    4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-12-72    4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-13-72    4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-14-72    4-25-72     T.S.O. I
O-17-72               T.S.O. IX
O-18-72    5-23-72     T.S.O. XII
O-22-72    6-27-72     T.S.O. I
O-23-72    6-27-72     T.S.O. XI
O-27-72    6-27-72     151.02
O-31-72    8-22-72     T.S.O. I
O-38-72    11-14-72    T.S.O. IX
O-39-72    11-14-72    111.09
I-0-4-73   - -73       T.S.O. III
O-6-73     2-27-73     T.S.O. IX
O-7-73     3-13-73     T.S.O. XII
O-10-73    3-29-73     T.S.O. IX
O-11-73    3-29-73     T.S.O. IX
O-12-73    3-29-73     T.S.O. IX
O-15-73    - - 73      T.S.O. XI
O-20-73    5-8-73      T.S.O. I
O-23-73    5-22-73     131.01
O-27-73    7-10-73     T.S.O. IX
O-29-73    8-28-73     T.S.O. I
O-34-73    10-9-73     T.S.O. VI
O-35-73    10-11-73    T.S.O. I
O-42-73    11-27-73    151.11
O-46-73    12-19-75    T.S.O. IX
O-1-74     2-12-74     T.S.O. I
O-6-74     3-12-74     T.S.O. XI
O-7-74     3-26-74     T.S.O. III
O-10-74    4-9-74      T.S.O. I
O-11-74    4-9-74      T.S.O. I
O-16-74    4-19-74     Ch. 114
O-17-74    4-16-74     T.S.O. IX
O-19-74    5-14-74     T.S.O. IX
O-23-74    6-11-74     T.S.O. IX
O-25-74    8-13-74     T.S.O. I
O-29-74    8-27-74     T.S.O. I
O-30-74    8-27-74     T.S.O. I
O-33-74    8-27-74     T.S.O. IX
O-36-74    8-13-74     156.01
O-39-74    10-22-74    T.S.O. I
O-40-74    10-22-74    T.S.O. I
O-41-74    10-22-74    T.S.O. I
O-43-74    11-12-74    T.S.O. I
O-44-74    11-12-74    T.S.O. I
O-46-74    11-26-74    T.S.O. IX
O-47-74    11-26-74    T.S.O. IX
                       71.01 -
O-50-74    11-26-74    71.06,
                       71.99
O-52-74    12-11-74    T.S.O. XI
O-3-75     2-11-75     T.S.O. IX
O-7-75     2-25-75     T.S.O. IX
O-8-75     2-25-75     T.S.O. IX
O-12-75    3-25-75     T.S.O. XII
O-13-75    3-25-75     T.S.O. XII
O-19-75    5-29-75     T.S.O. I
O-21-75    5-29-75     T.S.O. IX
O-24-75    7-8-75      T.S.O. IX
O-28-75    8-26-75     T.S.O. I
O-29-75    8-26-75     T.S.O. XII
O-32-75    9-23-75     T.S.O. IX
O-33-75    10-14-75    T.S.O. I
O-34-75    11-11-75    T.S.O. I
O-35-75    10-28-75    T.S.O. XII
O-39-75    1-13-76     T.S.O. IX
O-40-75    1-13-76     T.S.O. XII
O-4-76     2-10-76     T.S.O. XII
O-5-76     2-10-76     T.S.O. I
O-11-76    3-9-76      T.S.O. XII
O-12-76    4-13-76     T.S.O. IX
O-13-76    4-13-76     T.S.O. IX
O-14-76    4-13-76     Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                       II
O-21-76    4-27-76     32.46
O-22-76    5-25-76     T.S.O. XII
O-27-76    - -76       T.S.O. XI
O-30-76    6-8-76      Ch. 35
O-35-76    8-24-76     T.S.O. I
O-37-76    8-24-76     T.S.O. IX
O-39-76    9-14-76     T.S.O. I
O-41-76    10-12-76    T.S.O. IX
O-42-76    9-28-76     91.16
O-47-76    1-11-77     T.S.O. IX
                       111.01,
                       111.02,
O-4-77     3-8-77      111.03(A),
                       111.04 -
                       111.11
O-8-77     3-22-77     T.S.O. XI
O-9-77     4-12-77     T.S.O. IX
O-11-77    4-26-77     T.S.O. IX
O-12-77    4-26-77     T.S.O. I
O-15-77    5-10-77     90.15
O-17-77    7-12-77     T.S.O. I
O-18-77    6-28-77     T.S.O. I
O-26-77    8-23-77     151.01,
                       152.01
O-28-77    9-13-77     90.05
O-38-77    10-11-77    T.S.O. I
O-39-77    10-11-77    T.S.O. I
O-42-77    10-25-77    151.08,
                       151.99(C)
O-43-77    11-1-77     T.S.O. I
O-45-77    12-14-77    T.S.O. I
O-1-78     1-24-78     T.S.O. IX
O-8-78     3-14-78     T.S.O. IX
O-10-78    4-11-78     T.S.O. I
O-11-78    4-11-78     T.S.O. IX
O-13-78    4-25-78     T.S.O. I
O-15-78    4-25-78     151.01
O-19-78    6-27-78     T.S.O. IX
O-20-78    6-27-78     T.S.O. IX
O-30-78    9-12-78     T.S.O. I
O-31-78    9-12-78     T.S.O. I
O-33-78    10-10-78    151.11
O-41-78    11-28-78    T.S.O. IX
O-42-78    11-28-78    111.03(A)
O-3-79     1-23-79     T.S.O. I
O-7-79     3-27-79     T.S.O. IX
O-9-79     4-10-79     Ch. 95
O-10-79    4-11-79     111.03(A)
O-13-79    6-12-79     T.S.O. XII
O-14-79    6-12-79     T.S.O. XII
O-16-79    6-12-79     151.11
O-17-79    6-12-79     T.S.O. XI
O-18-79    7-24-79     T.S.O. XII
O-21-79    8-14-79     90.16
O-23-79    8-28-79     Ch. 73, Sch. III
O-24-79    8-28-79     91.40
O-25-79    8-28-79     Ch. 72
O-26-79    9-11-79     T.S.O. I
O-27-79    9-11-79     94.02
                       112.10,
O-32-79    9-27-79     112.11,
                       112.99
O-33-79    10-23-79    T.S.O. XII
O-35-79    10-23-79    T.S.O. XI
O-39-79    12-11-79    T.S.O. IX
O-3-80     2-26-80     T.S.O. IX
O-4-80     2-26-80     T.S.O. IX
O-6-80     3-25-80     T.S.O. IX
O-8-80     4-8-80      151.01
O-10-80    4-22-80     T.S.O. XII
O-11-80    5-13-80     T.S.O. IX
O-12-80    5-27-80     T.S.O. IX
O-16-80    6-10-80     T.S.O. XII
O-23-80    8-26-80     T.S.O. IX
O-25-80    9-9-80      Ch. 73, Sch. II
O-26-80    9-9-80      131.02
O-27-80    9-23-80     T.S.O. IX
O-33-80    10-14-80    T.S.O. XII
O-34-80    10-7-80     153.01
O-35-80    10-28-80    153.02
O-36-80    11-11-80    153.02
O-38-80    12-9-80     T.S.O. XII
O-39-80    12-9-80     T.S.O. IX
O-41-80    12-9-80     133.01,
                       133.99
O-42-80    1-13-81     T.S.O. I
O-2-81     1-27-81     153.02
I-0-4-81   11-10-81    T.S.O. III
O-4-81     1-27-81     Ch. 73, Sch. II;
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-7-81     2-10-81     T.S.O. IX
O-14-81    3-10-81     T.S.O. IX
O-19-81    3-24-81     T.S.O. IX
O-25-81    5-5-81      T.S.O. I
O-27-81    5-12-81     112.10,
                       112.11
O-31-81    7-21-81     Ch. 73, Sch. I
                       115.01,
                       115.02(A),
                       115.03-
O-37-81    8-25-81     115.05,
                       115.15-
                       115.20,
                       115.99
O-38-81    8-25-81     151.14
O-39-81    8-25-81     Ch. 73, Sch. II
                       115.15,
O-43-81    10-13-81    115.17,
                       115.18
O-47-81    10-27-81    90.06
O-48-81    10-27-81    T.S.O. X
O-50-81    12-22-81    T.S.O. I
O-51-81    12-22-81    Ch. 73, Sch. I
O-52-81    12-22-81    Ch. 73, Sch. I
O-53-81    1-12-82     T.S.O. II
O-1-82     1-26-82     T.S.O. I
O-2-82     1-26-82     T.S.O. I
O-5-82     2-23-82     T.S.O. I
O-6-82     2-23-82     38.01
O-9-82     2-23-82     T.S.O. II
O-11-82    5-11-82     T.S.O. XI
O-12-82    5-25-82     T.S.O. X
O-13-82    5-11-82     T.S.O. I
O-14-82    5-25-82     T.S.O. IX
                       110.01,
                       110.03,
O-17-82    6-8-82      110.05,
                       110.08,
                       110.99
O-18-82    6-8-82      110.05,
                       112.12
O-21-82    6-22-82     151.11
O-25-82    6-29-82     T.S.O. I
O-29-82    7-27-82     T.S.O. III
O-31-82    8-24-82     Ch. 73, Sch. II
O-33-82    9-2-82      T.S.O. I
O-34-82    9-2-82      Ch. 111
O-35-82    9-16-82     T.S.O. III
O-43-82    11-23-82    T.S.O. I
O-45-82    12-21-82    T.S.O. III
O-1-83     1-25-83     94.02
O-3-83     1-25-83     37.08
O-4-83     1-25-83     T.S.O. I
O-12-83    3-8-83      T.S.O. VI
O-13-83    4-12-83     T.S.O. IX
                       110.03,
O-14-83    4-26-83     110.04,
                       110.07,
                       110.08
O-18-83    5-24-83     Ch. 39
O-19-83    6-28-83     T.S.O. III
O-20-83    6-14-83     T.S.O. X
                       110.03,
O-25-83    8-23-83     110.05,
                       110.06,
                       110.09
                       115.01,
                       115.02,
O-26-83    8-23-83     115.15,
                       115.21,
                       115.22
O-35-83    10-11-83    Ch. 116
O-36-83    10-11-83    T.S.O. III
O-37-83    11-22-83    T.S.O. XI
O-38-83    12-20-83    Ch. 50
O-39-83    12-20-83    T.S.O. I
O-40-83    12-20-83    52.03,
                       52.99
O-41-83    12-20-83    T.S.O. IX
O-3-84     4-14-84     T.S.O. III
                       50.194,
                       50.206,
                       50.250 -
                       50.252,
O-6-84     2-28-84     50.300 -
                       50.302,
                       50.304 -
                       50.306,
                       50.999
O-7-84     3-27-84     38.02
O-9-84     4-10-84     50.251
O-15-84    6-26-84     T.S.O. IX
O-17-84    6-26-84     110.05
O-18-84    6-26-84     T.S.O. XI
O-19-84    7-10-84     Ch. 73, Sch. II(B)
O-24-84    9-25-84     156.02
O-25-84    9-25-84     Ch. 113
O-28-84    10-9-84     Ch. 51
O-33-84    11-14-84    T.S.O. XII
O-34-84    11-14-84    T.S.O. XII
O-36-84    11-27-84    T.S.O. II
O-37-84    12-4-84     T.S.O. XII
O-38-84    12-11-84    50.225 -
                       50.234
O-40-84    12-18-84    T.S.O. III
O-4-85     2-26-85     Ch. 70,
                       Ch. 74
O-7-85     3-12-85     T.S.O. III
O-8-85     3-12-85     T.S.O. I
O-9-85     4-9-85      97.01
O-10-85    3-26-85     Ch. 98
                       112.20 -
O-17-85    4-23-85     112.25,
                       112.99(D)
O-25-85    6-11-85     Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-29-85    7-23-85     Ch. 73, Sch. II(B)
O-30-85    8-27-85     T.S.O. III
O-31-85    9-10-85     T.S.O. I
O-33-85    9-10-85     133.02,
                       133.99
O-35-85    10-8-85     150.02
O-36-85    11-26-85    Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-37-85    12-3-85     T.S.O. III
O-38-85    12-3-85     T.S.O. III
O-39-85    12-3-85     T.S.O. III
O-41-85    12-17-85    T.S.O. III
O-3-86     2-11-86     Ch. 74, Sch. I
                       91.01 -
                       91.03,
                       91.15,
O-4-86     2-11-86     91.17,
                       91.60,
                       91.61,
                       91.99
O-5-86     2-11-86     Ch. 73, Sch. II
O-7-86     3-11-86     50.226
O-10-86    4-22-86     T.S.O. IV
O-12-86    5-27-86     131.02
O-13-86    5-27-86     70.05
O-14-86    5-27-86     T.S.O. III
O-15-86    7-8-86      T.S.O. IV
O-19-86    7-8-86      150.01
O-20-86    7-24-86     40.01
O-22-86    9-9-86      53.02
O-23-86    9-9-86      53.01
O-25-86    9-23-86     50.227
O-27-86    10-14-86    31.15
O-28-86    10-29-86    T.S.O. III
O-30-86    10-28-86    39.20
O-31-86    10-29-86    Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-32-86    11-25-86    151.11
O-33-86    11-25-86    150.01
O-34-86    11-25-86    157.01
O-35-86    12-9-86     T.S.O. III
O-36-86    12-17-86    T.S.O. III
O-37-86    12-18-86    T.S.O. III
O-38-86    12-18-86    T.S.O. III
O-4-87     5-19-87     T.S.O. IV
O-7-87     3-24-87     T.S.O. III
O-8-87     4-14-87     T.S.O. III
O-10-87    5-12-87     T.S.O. III
O-11-87    6-2-87      111.13
O-13-87    5-19-87     T.S.O. IV
O-17-87    6-2-87      40.02
O-18-87    7-14-87     T.S.O. III
O-19-87    6-30-87     33.15,
                       33.16
O-27-87    7-14-87     T.S.O. I
O-34-87    8-11-87     T.S.O. I
O-35-87    8-11-87     T.S.O. I
O-36-87    8-11-87     T.S.O. I
O-37-87    8-11-87     T.S.O. I
O-42-87    9-19-87     T.S.O. I
O-45-87    10-13-87    T.S.O. XI
O-48-87    11-24-87    50.225
                       91.75 -
O-50-87    1-12-88     91.79,
                       91.99
O-3-88     2-9-88      T.S.O. IV
O-4-88     2-23-88     T.S.O. III
O-5-88     3-22-88     T.S.O. I
O-7-88     4-26-88     T.S.O. IV
O-8-88     5-24-88     T.S.O. III
O-9-88     6-14-88     T.S.O. III
O-12-88    6-28-88     T.S.O. IV
O-16-88    7-26-88     34.02
O-17-88    7-26-88     53.15 -
                       53.23
O-18-88    7-26-88     53.24 -
                       53.27
O-21-88    9-13-88     70.06(B),
                       70.99
O-23-88    9-27-88     Ch. 70A
O-25-88    9-27-88     T.S.O. I
O-29-88    11-8-88     70.10
                       91.01,
                       91.02,
O-30-88    11-8-88     91.16,
                       91.60,
                       91.61
O-31-88    11-22-88    T.S.O. I
O-33-88    12-13-88    T.S.O. III
O-35-88    12-21-88    T.S.O. I
O-36-88    12-20-88    T.S.O. IV
O-1-89     1-24-89     T.S.O. IV
O-2-89     2-14-89     52.03
O-3-89     2-14-89     30.02
O-4-89     2-14-89     T.S.O. IV
O-5-89     2-14-89     T.S.O. IV
O-6-89     2-28-89     31.16
O-9-89     3-14-89     70.25
O-10-89    3-28-89     T.S.O. I
O-11-89    3-28-89     T.S.O. I
O-14-89    4-11-89     T.S.O. I
                       Ch. 73, Schs.
O-15-89    4-25-89     III,
                       IV,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-17-89    5-30-89     150.01
O-25-89    9-12-89     T.S.O. I
O-26-89    10-4-89     37.01 -
                       37.07
O-29-89    10-24-89    T.S.O. I
O-30-89    10-24-89    T.S.O. I
O-31-89    10-24-89    150.01
                       30.01,
O-1-90     1-23-90     30.03 -
                       30.05
O-2-90     10-13-87    T.S.O. XI
O-3-90     2-13-90     34.01
O-4-90     2-27-90     T.S.O. XI
O-7-90     3-13-90     T.S.O. X
O-8-90     4-10-90     34.01
O-9-90     5-8-90      31.01
O-12-90    6-12-90     90.34 -
                       90.37
O-16-90    7-24-90     T.S.O. III
O-17-90    7-24-90     T.S.O. III
O-18-90    7-24-90     T.S.O. IV
O-19-90    8-28-90     T.S.O. III
O-20-90    9-4-90      34.01
O-23-90    9-25-90     112.11
O-24-90    10-9-90     T.S.O. IX
O-25-90    10-9-90     37.01 -
                       37.07
O-26-90    10-9-90     34.01
O-27-90    11-27-90    157.01
O-30-90    11-27-90    T.S.O. III
O-31-90    12-18-90    T.S.O. V
O-32-90    12-18-90    T.S.O. I
O-33-90    12-22-90    T.S.O. III
O-2-91     2-12-91     53.02
O-3-91     2-12-91     T.S.O. III
O-12-91    6-11-91     157.01
O-13-91    6-26-91     157.01
O-17-91    9-10-91     94.02
O-18-91    9-10-91     151.02,
                       151.02
O-21-91    9-10-91     T.S.O. I
O-22-91    9-10-91     T.S.O. I
O-23-91    9-10-91     T.S.O. I
O-24-91    9-10-91     T.S.O. I
O-25-91    10-8-91     34.01
                       115.01,
O-27-91    9-24-91     115.15,
                       115.22
O-28-91    9-24-91     T.S.O. VI
O-29-91    10-8-91     T.S.O. I
O-30-91    10-8-91     T.S.O. I
O-31-91    10-8-91     T.S.O. I
O-32-91    10-8-91     T.S.O. I
O-33-91    10-8-91     T.S.O. I
O-34-91    10-8-91     Ch. 113
O-36-91    10-8-91     Ch. 37
O-37-91    10-22-91    33.35 -
                       33.40
O-38-91    10-22-91    T.S.O. I
O-39-91    11-12-91    T.S.O. VI
O-40-91    10-22-91    T.S.O. I
O-41-91    11-12-91    T.S.O. IV
O-42-91    11-26-91    T.S.O. I
O-43-91    11-26-91    T.S.O. I
O-44-91    11-26-91    T.S.O. I
O-45-91    11-26-91    T.S.O. I
O-46-91    11-26-91    T.S.O. I
O-47-91    12-10-91    34.01
O-48-91    12-10-91    50.225
O-49-91    12-10-91    T.S.O. V
O-50-91    1-14-92     T.S.O. I
O-51-91    1-14-92     T.S.O. VI
O-1-92     1-21-92     34.01
O-2-92     1-21-92     T.S.O. I
O-3-92     1-28-92     T.S.O. I
O-4-92     2-25-92     34.01
O-5-92     3-10-92     T.S.O. III
O-6-92     3-10-92     T.S.O. VI
O-7-92     3-10-92     T.S.O. IV
O-8-92     4-14-92     T.S.O. I
O-9-92     4-14-92     T.S.O. III
O-10-92    4-14-92     T.S.O. XIII
O-11-92    4-28-92     T.S.O. III
O-12-92    4-21-92     T.S.O. IV
O-13-92    4-28-92     31.16
O-14-92    5-12-92     T.S.O. VI
O-15-92    5-19-92     T.S.O. III
O-16-92    5-19-92     157.01
O-17-92    6-9-92      151.15
O-20-92    6-23-92     T.S.O. XIII
O-21-92    7-14-92     T.S.O. XIII
O-22-92    7-21-92     T.S.O. XIII
O-23-92    7-21-92     Ch. 157
                       151.50 -
O-24-92    9-8-92      151.52,
                       151.99
O-25-92    9-22-92     T.S.O. IV
O-26-92    9-22-92     Ch. 157
O-27-92    9-22-92     Ch. 54
O-28-92    10-13-92    Ch. 37
O-29-92    11-24-92    T.S.O. III
O-32-92    1-12-93     T.S.O. I
O-1-93     1-12-93     T.S.O. V
O-2-93     2-9-93      34.01
O-3-93     2-23-93     157.01
O-4-93     2-23-93     T.S.O. XIII
                       153.10 -
O-5-93     3-9-93      153.14,
                       153.99
O-6-93     4-13-93     T.S.O. VI
O-7-93     4-27-93     50.194
O-9-93     4-27-93     T.S.O. IV
O-10-93    4-27-93     T.S.O. IV
O-11-93    4-27-93     T.S.O. IV
O-12-93    5-11-93     Ch. 99
O-13-93    5-19-93     40.03
O-18-93    8-10-93     34.01
O-19-93    8-10-93     T.S.O. I
O-20-93    9-28-93     T.S.O. IV
                       32.20 -
O-21-93    9-14-93     32.23,
                       34.01
O-24-93    9-28-93     157.01
O-25-93    9-28-93     T.S.O. XIII
O-28-93    10-26-93    Ch. 37
O-29-93    10-26-93    157.01
O-30-93    10-26-93    157.01
O-31-93    11-9-93     30.01
O-32-93    11-9-93     T.S.O. I
O-33-93    11-9-93     T.S.O. I
O-34-93    11-23-93    T.S.O. VI
O-35-93    11-23-93    T.S.O. XI
O-36-93    12-14-93    T.S.O. V
O-37-93    12-14-93    70.08
O-38-93    12-14-93    112.10,
                       112.11
O-39-93    1-11-94     T.S.O. IV
O-1-94     1-25-94     T.S.O. IV
O-3-94     5-24-94     133.01,
                       133.99
O-8-94     6-28-94     34.01
O-9-94     6-28-94     34.01
O-10-94    6-28-94     T.S.O. X
O-12-94    7-26-94     T.S.O. X
O-13-94    7-26-94     157.01
O-14-94    7-26-94     T.S.O. XIII
O-17-94    8-9-94      T.S.O. XIII
O-19-94    8-23-94     34.01
O-20-94    8-23-94     T.S.O. I
O-21-94    8-23-94     T.S.O. IV
O-22-94    9-6-94      Ch. 113
O-23-94    9-6-94      T.S.O. I
O-24-94    9-6-94      T.S.O. XIII
O-25-94    9-27-94     34.02
O-27-94    10-25-94    Ch. 37
O-28-94    10-25-94    70.25
O-31-94    11-15-94    115.15
                       110.03,
                       110.04,
                       110.05,
O-32-94    11-15-94    110.07,
                       110.99,
                       115.20,
                       115.99
O-33-94    11-15-94    50.225
O-34-94    11-22-94    T.S.O. XIII
O-35-94    11-22-94    Ch. 43
O-36-94    1-10-95     111.03
O-1-95     1-17-95     T.S.O. XIII
O-2-95     2-28-95     T.S.O. IV
O-3-95     3-28-95     157.01
O-4-95     3-28-95     T.S.O. IV
                       110.04,
O-5-95     4-11-95     110.10,
                       110.99
O-7-95     6-6-95      T.S.O. IV
O-8-95     6-13-95     T.S.O. IV
O-11-95    6-27-95     34.01
O-12-95    8-8-95      34.01
O-13-95    9-12-95     T.S.O. XIII
O-14-95    6-27-95     34.01
O-15-95    9-12-95     Ch. 100
O-16-95    9-19-95     Ch. 101
O-17-95    9-19-95     T.S.O. I
O-18-95    9-26-95     37.01
O-19-95    10-24-95    50.225
O-20-95    10-31-95    157.01
O-22-95    11-28-95    34.01
O-23-95    12-12-95    50.225
O-24-95    12-12-95    34.01
O-25-96    2-13-96     T.S.O. I
O-26-95    12-12-95    T.S.O. XIII
O-1-96     2-27-96     34.03
O-2-96     3-26-96     T.S.O. I
O-3-96     4-2-96      T.S.O. I
O-5-96     4-30-96     T.S.O. I
O-6-96     5-14-96     110.05
O-7-96     5-14-96     T.S.O. I
O-9-96     5-28-96     Ch. 73, Sch. III
O-12-96    8-13-96     33.50
                       43.04,
O-13-96    10-22-96    43.35,
                       43.36
O-14-96    8-13-96     T.S.O. VI
O-15-96    8-27-96     34.01
O-16-96    8-27-96     T.S.O. I
O-17-96    9-10-96     T.S.O. XIII
O-18-96    10-1-96     37.01 -
                       37.07
O-22-96    10-29-96    33.35,
                       33.36
O-24-96    11-19-96    157.01
O-25-96    11-19-96    T.S.O. III
O-26-96    11-19-96    157.01
                       155.01 -
                       155.04,
                       155.10 -
                       155.17,
O-28-96    12-10-96    155.30 -
                       155.32,
                       155.45 -
                       155.48,
                       155.52,
                       155.99
O-30-96    12-17-96    T.S.O. I
O-1-97     1-28-97     34.01
                       Ch. 73, Sch. I,
O-2-97     1-14-97     II;
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                       II
O-4-97     2-11-97     70.25
O-5-97     2-18-97     T.S.O. III
O-6-97     2-25-97     34.01
O-7-97     3-25-97     T.S.O. X
O-8-97     4-8-97      T.S.O. X
O-9-97     4-22-97     T.S.O. XIII
O-10-97    4-22-97     T.S.O. XIV
O-11-97    5-13-97     30.01
O-12-97    5-20-97     T.S.O. III
O-13-97    5-20-97     T.S.O. III
O-16-97    6-24-97     T.S.O. XIII
O-17-97    7-8-97      34.01
O-18-97    9-23-97     T.S.O. IV
O-19-97    10-28-97    37.01
O-20-97    10-28-97    T.S.O. I
O-21-97    10-28-97    T.S.O. I
O-22-97    10-28-97    T.S.O. IV
O-23-97    11-25-97    T.S.O. IV
O-24-97    12-9-97     Ch. 117
O-26-97    1-13-98     T.S.O. XI
O-1-98     1-27-98     T.S.O. IV
O-2-98     3-10-98     T.S.O. I
O-3-98     3-24-98     110.05
O-4-98     3-24-98     T.S.O. XIII
O-5-98     4-28-98     T.S.O. IV
O-6-98     5-12-98     T.S.O. III
O-7-98     5-12-98     T.S.O. IV
O-8-98     5-12-98     T.S.O. XIII
O-9-98     6-9-98      T.S.O. IV
O-10-98    6-9-98      T.S.O. XIII
O-11-98    6-9-98      T.S.O. IV
O-14-98    7-14-98     34.01
O-16-98    7-28-98     34.01
O-18-98    9-22-98     T.S.O. XIII
O-19-98    9-29-98     T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
O-20-98    10-13-98    37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.07
O-21-98    10-27-98    33.60 -
                       33.63
O-22-98    10-27-98    34.01
O-23-98    10-27-98    34.01
O-17-98    11-24-98    T.S.O. I
                       Ch. 73, Sch. I,
O-24-98    12-8-98     II;
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                       II
O-25-98    12-8-98     32.03
O-26-98    12-8-98     157.01
O-27-98    12-22-98    34.01
O-28-98    12-22-98    T.S.O. XIII
O-30-98    1-12-99     T.S.O. I
O-31-98    1-12-99     157.01
O-1-99     1-26-99     T.S.O. V
O-2-99     2-25-99     34.01
O-4-99     3-9-99      T.S.O. VI
O-5-99     4-27-99     T.S.O. I
O-6-99     5-11-99     T.S.O. XIII
O-8-99     6-15-99     T.S.O. V
O-9-99     6-15-99     111.03
O-10-99    6-22-99     T.S.O. IV
O-11-99    6-15-99     T.S.O. IV
O-13-99    7-13-99     34.01
O-14-99    7-13-99     34.03
O-15-99    7-27-99     34.01
O-16-99    7-27-99     T.S.O. XIII
O-18-99    10-5-99     T.S.O. IV
O-19-99    9-28-99     37.01
O-20-99    9-28-99     T.S.O. XII
O-21-99    9-28-99     T.S.O. XII
O-22-99    9-28-99     T.S.O. XIII
O-23-99    9-28-99     T.S.O. XIII
O-24-99    10-12-99    T.S.O. I
O-25-99    11-7-99     157.01
O-26-99    11-23-99    T.S.O. III
O-27-99    12-14-99    37.01
O-28-99    12-14-99    34.01
O-29-99    12-14-99    50.229
O-30-99    12-21-99    T.S.O. IV
O-31-99    1-11-00     T.S.O. XIII
                       35.01,
O-01-00    1-25-00     35.02,
                       35.03,
                       35.04
O-03-00    2-22-00     T.S.O. X
O-04-00    3-14-00     94.02
O-05-00    3-14-00     30.01
O-06-00    4-11-00     150.02
O-07-00    3-28-00     34.01
O-08-00    4-11-00     T.S.O. I
O-09-00    5-9-00      T.S.O. VII
O-10-00    5-9-00      T.S.O. X
O-11-00    5-30-00     T.S.O. IV
O-12-00    5-30-00     T.S.O. III
O-13-00    6-6-00      T.S.O. IV
O-16-00    6-27-00     34.01
O-17-00    8-1-00      T.S.O. IV
O-19-00    10-10-00    37.01
O-21-00    11-14-00    50.103
O-22-00    12-5-00     T.S.O. IV
O-23-00    12-5-00     T.S.O. XIII
O-01-01    2-13-01     96.01
O-02-01    3-13-01     30.01
O-03-01    3-13-01     32.24
O-04-01    4-10-01     T.S.O. XIII
O-05-01    4-10-01     T.S.O. V
O-06-01    4-24-01     T.S.O. I
O-09-01    6-26-01     34.01
O-10-01    6-26-01     54.11
O-11-01    8-28-01     T.S.O. I
O-12-01    8-28-01     T.S.O. I
O-13-01    8-28-01     T.S.O. I
O-14-01    8-28-01     T.S.O. I
                       37.01,
O-15-01    10-9-01     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.06
O-17-01    10-23-01    T.S.O. III
O-18-01    10-23-01    34.01
O-19-01    11-13-01    37.01
O-20-01    11-13-01    T.S.O. XII
O-21-01    11-27-01    T.S.O. I
O-22-01    11-27-01    T.S.O. IV
O-01-02    1-15-02     32.01
O-02-02    3-12-02     32.22
O-04-02    3-26-02     T.S.O. I
O-05-02    3-26-02     T.S.O. IV
O-06-02    4-30-02     T.S.O. III
                       33.70 -
O-07-02    4-30-02     33.78,
                       33.80 -
                       33.83
O-08-02    4-30-02     T.S.O. XIII
O-09-02    4-30-02     31.16
O-10-02    5-14-02     34.01
O-13-02    6-25-02     110.05
O-14-02    6-25-02     34.01
O-15-02    6-25-02     T.S.O. I
O-16-02    6-25-02     T.S.O. IV
O-17-02    6-25-02     T.S.O. IX
O-18-02    7-16-02     34.01
O-19-02    7-16-02     T.S.O. IV
O-20-02    7-30-02     157.01
O-21-02    7-30-02     T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
O-22-02    9-24-02     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.06
O-23-02    10-8-02     T.S.O. I
O-24-02    10-15-02    T.S.O. I
O-25-02    10-15-02    T.S.O. I
O-26-02    10-15-02    T.S.O. IV
O-27-02    11-12-02    T.S.O. I
O-29-02    12-3-02     T.S.O. XIII
O-30-02    12-3-02     T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. XIII
                       111.03,
                       111.04,
O-02-03    2-4-03      111.09,
                       111.11,
                       111.99
O-03-03    2-4-03      157.01
O-04-03    8-19-03     T.S.O. I
O-05-03    2-25-03     50.225
O-06-03    3-11-03     T.S.O. IV
                       43.04,
                       43.05,
                       43.36,
O-07-03    4-1-03      43.37,
                       43.39,
                       43.60,
                       43.61
O-08-03    5-13-03     T.S.O. XIII
                       50.265,
O-09-03    5-13-03     50.266,
                       54.05 -
                       54.15
O-10-03    5-27-03     157.01
                       52.01,
                       52.99,
O-11-03    6-10-03     154.01 -
                       154.03,
                       Ch. 154, Appendix
O-14-03    6-24-03     34.01
O-15-03    7-15-03     T.S.O. III
O-16-03    8-5-03      T.S.O. XIII
O-17-03    8-5-03      41.01
O-18-03    8-26-03     T.S.O. IV
                       34.01,
O-20-03    9-2-03      50.265,
                       54.05 -
                       54.15
                       37.01,
O-21-03    9-23-03     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.06
O-22-03    10-14-03    T.S.O. III
O-23-03    10-14-03    34.01
O-24-03    10-21-03    34.01
O-25-03    2-24-03     T.S.O. I
O-26-03    2-24-03     T.S.O. I
O-27-03    10-21-03    T.S.O. I
O-28-03    10-21-03    T.S.O. XIII
O-29-03    3-16-04     T.S.O. I
O-30-03    3-16-04     T.S.O. I
O-31-03    11-11-03    T.S.O. I
O-32-03    11-11-03    T.S.O. IV
O-01-04    1-20-04     34.01
O-03-04    2-3-04      T.S.O. IV
O-04-04    2-24-04     T.S.O. XIII
O-05-04    2-24-04     T.S.O. XIII
O-06-04    3-9-04      T.S.O. I
O-07-04    3-16-04     T.S.O. XIII
O-08-04    3-16-04     T.S.O. XIII
O-09-04    3-23-04     T.S.O. I
O-10-04    4-20-04     T.S.O. I
O-11-04    4-20-04     T.S.O. I
                       70.01,
                       70.02,
                       70.06,
                       70.09,
                       70.10,
                       70.20 -
                       70.23,
                       70.25,
                       70.27 -
O-12-04    4-27-04     70.29,
                       70.99,
                       72.03 -
                       72.05,
                       72.99,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                       II,
                       90.35 -
                       90.37,
                       90.99,
                       94.99 
O-13-04    5-25-04     110.11
O-14-04    5-25-04     T.S.O. I
O-15-04    5-25-04     T.S.O. I
O-16-04    6-8-04      T.S.O. XIII
O-17-04    5-8-04      T.S.O. I
O-19-04    6-8-04      118.01
O-23-04    6-22-04     T.S.O. IV
O-24-04    6-22-04     T.S.O. XI
O-25-04    7-6-04      T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
O-26-04    9-14-04     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.06
O-27-04    10-12-04    33.73
O-28-04    10-26-04    150.01,
                       150.02
O-29-04    11-9-04     T.S.O. I
O-30-04    12-7-04     111.09
                       50.225,
                       50.227,
                       50.229,
O-32-04    12-21-04    50.251,
                       50.253 
                       53.01 -
                       53.06,
                       54.14
O-33-04    12-21-04    34.01
O-34-04    12-21-04    T.S.O. I
O-01-05    2-8-05      34.01
O-02-05    2-22-05     T.S.O. III
O-03-05    3-22-05     T.S.O. IV
O-04-05    3-22-05     34.01
O-06-05    5-10-05     93.01,
                       93.02
O-07-05    5-10-05     96.01
O-08-05    5-31-05     T.S.O. I
O-10-05    5-31-05     T.S.O. IV
O-13-05    6-28-05     34.01
                       98.25,
O-14-05    7-12-05     98.26,
                       98.28,
                       98.29
                       98.40,
O-15-05    7-12-05     98.42,
                       98.43
O-16-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. I
O-17-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. IV
O-18-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. IV
O-5-05     9-27-05     T.S.O. I
O-9-05     9-13-05     T.S.O. I
O-19-05    9-13-05     T.S.O. IV
O-20-05    12-13-05    34.01
                       37.01,
O-21-05    9-27-05     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.09
O-22-05    9-27-05     T.S.O. XIII
O-23-05    9-27-05     50.103,
                       50.999
O-24-05    10-11-05    T.S.O. XIII
O-25-05    10-11-05    T.S.O. XIII
O-26-05    10-11-05    34.01
O-27-05    11-8-05     T.S.O. I
O-28-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. XIII
O-29-05    12-13-05    34.01
O-30-05    12-20-05    T.S.O. IV
O-31-05    12-20-05    T.S.O. X
                       70A.02,
                       Ch. 73, Sch. I -
O-32-05    12-20-05    III,
                       VI,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-33-05    12-20-05    33.84
O-34-05    1-10-06     34.01
O-2-06     1-24-06     157.01
O-3-06     2-28-06     T.S.O. I
O-4-06     3-28-06     154.03
O-5-06     3-28-06     157.01
O-6-06     3-28-06     T.S.O. IV
O-7-06     4-4-06      T.S.O. IV
O-8-06     4-25-06     T.S.O. I
O-9-06     4-25-06     31.16
O-10-06    5-23-06     T.S.O. XIII
O-11-06    5-23-06     T.S.O. XI
O-12-06    6-13-06     T.S.O. XIII
O-15-06    6-27-06     34.01
O-16-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. IV
O-17-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. IV
O-18-06    1-29-06     T.S.O. I
O-20-06    8-15-06     T.S.O. XIII
                       98.50 -
O-21-06    9-12-06     98.52,
                       98.99
O-22-06    9-12-06     34.01
O-23-06    9-12-06     T.S.O. XIII
                       37.01.
O-24-06    9-26-06     37.02,
                       37.04 -
                       37.07
O-25-06    10-10-06    T.S.O. IV
O-26-06    10-24-06    T.S.O. XIII
O-27-06    10-24-06    34.01
O-28-06    12-12-06    T.S.O. IV
O-29-06    12-19-06    T.S.O. XIII
O-30-06    12-19-06    T.S.O. XIII
O-31-06    1-9-07      T.S.O. IV
O-32-06    1-9-07      T.S.O. IV
O-33-06    6-12-07     T.S.O. I
                       119.01 -
                       119.04,
                       119.10 -
                       119.18,
O-2-07     2-22-07     119.30 -
                       119.33,
                       110.45 -
                       119.48,
                       119.99
O-3-07     3-6-07      113.01 -
                       113.03
                       50.225,
O-4-07     3-6-07      50.228,
                       54.11
O-5-07     3-6-07      115.22
O-6-07     4-24-07     115.21
                       155.01 -
                       155.04,
                       155.10 -
                       155.17,
O-8-07     5-22-07     155.30 -
                       155.32,
                       155.45 -
                       155.52,
                       155.98,
                       155.99 
                       98.25 -
O-9-07     6-26-07     98.28,
                       98.60 -
                       98.62
O-10-07    6-26-07     98.40 -
                       98.43
O-11-07    6-12-07     T.S.O. IV
O-12-07    6-26-07     110.11
O-17-07    9-11-07     T.S.O. IV
O-18-07    9-11-07     T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
O-20-07    9-25-07     37.02,
                       37.04-
                       37.07
O-21-07    9-25-07     T.S.O. IV
O-22-07    10-9-07     155.52
O-23-07    10-23-07    T.S.O. IV
O-24-07    10-23-07    T.S.O. XIII
O-25-07    4-28-08     T.S.O. I
O-26-07    11-13-07    34.01
                       110.03,
                       110.05,
                       110.12 -
                       110.25,
O-27-07    12-11-07    110.99,
                       115.01,
                       115.19,
                       115.21,
                       115.22,
                       115.99
O-28-07    12-18-07    T.S.O. XI
O-29-07    1-8-08      30.01
O-1-08     2-26-08     157.01
O-2-08     2-26-08     T.S.O. IV
O-3-08     3-25-08     T.S.O. IV
O-4-08     3-25-08     34.01
O-6-08     4-28-08     T.S.O. XIII
O-7-08     8-5-08      T.S.O. I
O-11-08    6-24-08     34.01
O-12-08    6-24-08     T.S.O. IV
O-13-08    8-5-08      T.S.O. IV
O-15-08    10-14-08    157.01
O-16-08    10-28-08    157.01
O-17-08    10-28-08    157.01
O-19-08    10-28-08    120.01 -
                       120.49
O-20-08    11-11-08    44.01 -
                       44.08
O-1-09     2-3-09      30.01
O-2-09     2-23-09     T.S.O. VI
O-3-09     3-24-09     T.S.O. IV
O-4-09     4-14-09     T.S.O. IV
O-5-09     4-14-09     50.225,
                       50.227
O-8-09     6-16-09     34.01
O-9-09     6-16-09     34.03
O-11-09    7-28-09     34.01
O-12-09    8-25-09     154.03
O-14-09    10-13-09    T.S.O. I
O-15-09    10-6-09     34.01
O-2-10     3-10-10     34.01
O-3-10     6-8-10      T.S.O. XIII
O-4-10     6-8-10      33.70
O-7-10     6-22-10     34.01
O-8-10     7-13-10     T.S.O. XIII
O-9-10     8-10-10     34.01
O-10-10    8-31-10     T.S.O. III
O-12-10    9-28-10     32.24
O-13-10    11-23-10    157.01
                       91.01,
                       91.02,
                       91.16,
                       91.17,
                       91.30,
O-14-10    12-14-10    91.40,
                       91.50,
                       91.60,
                       91.61,
                       91.85 -
                       91.89,
                       91.99
O-15-10    12-21-10    T.S.O. I
O-17-10    12-21-10    34.01
O-3-11     3-15-11     34.01
O-4-11     4-19-11     T.S.O. IV
O-5-11     4-19-11     T.S.O. XIII
O-6-11     6-28-11     T.S.O. I
O-9-11     6-28-11     34.01
O-10-11    6-28-11     34.01
O-11-11    6-28-11     T.S.O. IV
O-13-11    8-23-11     34.01
O-14-11    9-13-11     157.01
O-16-11    9-13-11     T.S.O. I
O-18-11    10-11-11    T.S.O. IV
O-19-11    10-11-11    91.99
                       Ch. 73 Sch. I -
                       III,
O-20-11    10-25-11    V,
                       VI,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
                       98.15 -
O-21-11    10-25-11    98.21,
                       98.99
O-22-11    11-1-11     T.S.O. III
O-24-11    11-22-11    T.S.O. IV
O-1-12     2-14-12     157.01
O-2-12     3-13-12     157.01
O-3-12     3-27-12     T.S.O. III
O-4-12     3-27-12     T.S.O. III
O-5-12     3-27-12     94.02
O-6-12     4-10-12     T.S.O. XIII
O-7-12     4-10-12     T.S.O. VI
O-8-12     5-8-12      T.S.O. XIII
O-9-12     7-10-12     T.S.O. I
O-12-12    6-19-12     T.S.O. VI
O-13-12    6-19-12     34.01
O-14-12    7-10-12     32.25
                       37.01,
                       37.02,
O-16-12    9-18-12     37.04 -
                       37.07,
                       37.09
O-17-12    10-9-12     T.S.O. I
O-18-12    10-23-12    T.S.O. X
O-20-12    12-11-12    34.01
O-21-12    12-18-12    111.03,
                       111.09
O-1-13     1-22-13     30.01
O-2-13     4-16-13     T.S.O. I
O-3-13     3-26-13     34.01
O-4-13     4-9-13      T.S.O. XIII
O-6-13     5-28-13     T.S.O. XIII
O-7-13     5-28-13     T.S.O. XIII
O-10-13    6-25-13     34.01
                       37.01,
                       37.02,
O-11-13    9-17-13     37.04 -
                       37.07,
                       37.09
                       111.03 -
O-12-13    10-8-13     111.07,
                       111.09
O-14-13    10-29-13    T.S.O. XIII
O-17-2013  11-12-13    T.S.O. III
O-18-13    12-10-13    93.01
O-20-13    3-11-14     T.S.O. I
                       102.01 -
O-1-14     1-28-14     102.06,
                       102.99
O-2-14     1-28-14     33.81
O-3-14     1-28-14     111.03
O-5-14     2-25-14     34.01
O-6-14     3-11-14     157.01
O-7-14     3-11-14     T.S.O. IV
O-8-14     4-8-14      157.01
O-9-14     4-8-14      T.S.O. IV
O-10-14    4-8-14      34.01
O-11-14    8-12-14     54.30-
                       54.56
O-12-14    6-10-14     T.S.O. IV
O-15-14    6-24-14     32.25
O-16-14    6-24-14     34.01
O-17-14    7-1-14      T.S.O. IV
O-18-14    7-1-14      T.S.O. XIII
O-19-14    7-1-14      T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
O-20-14    9-16-14     37.04 -
                       37.07,
                       37.09
O-21-14    1-13-15     T.S.O. I
O-22-14    10-14-14    98.25,
                       98.27
O-23-14    10-14-14    98.40,
                       98.41
O-24-14    10-14-14    112.11
O-25-14    10-28-14    T.S.O. IV
O-27-14    12-16-14    34.01
O-28-14    12-16-14    30.01
O-29-14    1-13-15     157.01
O-30-14    1-13-15     T.S.O. IV,
                       XIII
O-1-15     1-27-15     T.S.O. I
O-2-15     2-17-15     34.01
O-3-15     2-17-15     T.S.O. XIII
O-4-15     2-17-15     T.S.O. XIII
O-5-2015   3-10-15     T.S.O. III
O-6-15     4-14-15     T.S.O. XI
O-7-15     4-14-15     T.S.O. IV
O-10-15    6-23-15     34.01
O-11-15    7-28-15     T.S.O. I
O-12-15    8-4-15      117.03
O-13-15    8-4-15      32.02
O-14-15    8-4-15      T.S.O. X
O-15-15    9-15-15     37.02,
                       37.09
O-16-15    10-13-15    34.01
O-17-15    11-17-15    T.S.O. I
O-18-15    11-17-15    T.S.O. IV
O-20-15    12-22-15    T.S.O. IV
O-21-15    12-22-15    T.S.O. IV
O-1-16     2-9-16      T.S.O. IV
O-2-16     2-9-16      T.S.O. IV
O-3-16     3-1-16      34.01
O-4-16     5-10-16     T.S.O. IV
O-5-16     5-10-16     T.S.O. XIII
O-6-16     6-14-16     T.S.O. XIII
O-7-16     6-14-16     T.S.O. XIII
                       33.70 -
                       33.78,
                       33.80 -
                       33.83,
                       54.53,
O-10-16    6-21-16     91.99,
                       93.02,
                       98.28,
                       98.42,
                       98.43,
                       110.03,
                       Ch. 154, Appendix
O-11-16    6-21-16     34.01
O-12-16    9-13-16     37.01
O-13-16    9-13-16     T.S.O. XIII
O-14-16    11-22-16    157.01
O-17-16    12-6-16     34.01
O-19-16    1-10-17     T.S.O. VI
O-2-17     2-28-17     T.S.O. I
O-4-17     4-4-17      T.S.O. IV
O-5-17     4-4-17      T.S.O. IV
O-6-17     4-4-17      T.S.O. XIII
O-7-17     6-6-17      116.01 ,
                       116.99
O-8-17     6-6-17      T.S.O. XIII
O-11-17    6-13-17     34.01 ,
                       34.03
O-13-17    7-11-17     34.01
                       37.01 ,
                       37.02 ,
O-14-17    9-12-17     37.04  -
                       37.07 ,
                       37.09
O-15-17    11-14-17    T.S.O. XIII
O-16-17    11-28-17    T.S.O. X
O-17-17    11-28-17    T.S.O. X
                       111.01 ,
                       111.09 ,
O-18-17    12-12-17    111.11 ,
                       111.12 ,
                       111.99
O-20-17    12-19-17    32.25
O-2-18     2-13-18     T.S.O. XIII
O-3-18     2-27-18     T.S.O. XIII
O-4-18     3-20-18     113.01  -
                       113.03
O-5-18     3-27-18     T.S.O. IV
O-8-18     6-19-18     34.01
O-9-18     6-19-18     34.01
                       37.01 ,
O-10-18    9-4-18      37.02 ,
                       37.04  -
                       37.07
O-12-18    10-30-18    T.S.O. I
O-1-19     1-22-19     T.S.O. XIII
O-3-19     1-29-19     34.01
                       50.225 ,
                       50.227 ,
                       50.251 ,
O-4-19     1-29-19     50.253 ,
                       53.01 ,
                       53.02 ,
                       54.11
O-5-19     2-26-19     T.S.O. VI
O-6-19     3-12-19     157.01
O-7-19     3-12-19     98.18
O-8-19     4-2-19      33.35
O-9-19     4-23-19     34.01
O-12-19    6-18-19     34.01
O-13-19    6-25-19     T.S.O. XIII
O-15-19    7-23-19     T.S.O. VI
                       37.01 ,
O-16-19    9-3-19      37.02 ,
                       37.04  -
                       37.07
O-17-19    10-8-19     30.01
O-18-19    10-8-19     T.S.O. IV
O-20-19    11-19-19    T.S.O. IV
                       Ch. 73 Sch. I -
O-21-19    12-17-19    VI ,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-23-19    12-17-19    34.01
O-24-19    1-14-20     T.S.O. IV
O-1-20     1-28-20     T.S.O. IV
O-2-20     2-25-20     T.S.O. IV
O-3-20     2-25-20     T.S.O. IV
O-5-20     3-24-20     T.S.O. IV
O-8-20     6-16-20     34.01
O-9-20     7-28-20     30.01
O-11-20    11-24-20    T.S.O. I
                       37.01 ,
                       37.02 ,
O-12-20    9-15-20     37.04  -
                       37.07 ,
                       37.09
O-13-20    10-27-20    T.S.O. XIII
O-14-20    11-10-20    T.S.O. XIII
O-15-20    11-24-20    T.S.O. XIII
O-16-20    12-8-20     T.S.O. XI
O-18-20    12-15-20    T.S.O. IV
O-19-20    12-15-20    157.01
                       121.01  -
O-20-20    12-15-20    121.07 ,
                       121.99
O-1-21     1-26-21     157.01
O-2-21     4-27-21     T.S.O. I
O-5-21     9-14-21     T.S.O. I
O-8-21     6-22-21     34.01
O-9-21     6-22-21     T.S.O. IV
O-10-21    6-22-21     T.S.O. XIII
O-11-21    8-24-21     T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. XIII
O-12-21    8-24-21     T.S.O. IV
O-13-21    8-24-21     T.S.O. IV
O-14-21    8-24-21     31.16
O-15-21    9-7-21      34.01
O-16-21    9-14-21     37.01
O-17-21    9-14-21     T.S.O. XIII
O-18-21    9-14-21     T.S.O. IV
O-20-21    11-16-21    T.S.O. IV
O-21-21    11-16-21    T.S.O. IV
O-1-22     2-8-22      T.S.O. XIII
O-3-22     4-26-22     T.S.O. XI
O-4-22     4-26-22     98.25 -
                       98.29
O-5-22     4-26-22     98.40 -
                       98.43
O-6-22     5-10-22     T.S.O. I
O-7-22     5-24-22     T.S.O. IV
O-8-22     5-24-22     T.S.O. I
O-9-22     6-14-22     33.35
O-12-22    6-21-22     34.01
O-13-22    6-28-22     T.S.O. XIII
O-14-22    7-12-22     T.S.O. XIII
O-15-22    7-12-22     T.S.O. IV
O-16-22    8-23-22     T.S.O. I
O-17-22    9-6-22      111.09
                       37.01,
                       37.02,
O-18-22    9-13-22     37.04 -
                       37.07,
                       37.09
O-19-22    9-13-22     T.S.O. IV
O-21-22    10-18-22    34.01
O-22-22    11-1-22     T.S.O. IV
                       Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                       II,
O-23-22    11-15-22    V,
                       VI,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
O-24-22    12-21-22    157.01
O-1-23     2-14-23     T.S.O. IV
O-2-23     2-14-23     T.S.O. IV
O-3-23     2-14-23     T.S.O. XIII
O-4-23     2-28-23     T.S.O. XIII
O-5-23     3-28-23     T.S.O. XIII
O-6-23     3-28-23     T.S.O. IV
O-7-2023   4-25-23     T.S.O. IV
O-8-2023   5-2-23      53.01
O-9-2023   5-2-23      31.25 ,
                       31.26
O-10-2023  5-2-23      30.01
O-13-2023  5-2-23      36.01
O-14-2023  5-9-23      T.S.O. XIII
O-17-2023  6-27-23     34.01
O-19-2023  7-11-23     T.S.O. XIII
O-21-2023  8-8-23      34.01
O-22-2023  8-8-23      45.01  -
                       45.06
O-23-2023  8-8-23      45.15  -
                       45.20
O-24-2023  8-8-23      31.02
O-25-2023  9-12-23     T.S.O. IV
O-27-2023  9-26-23     37.01
                       119.01  -
O-28-2023  11-7-23     119.19 ,
                       119.99
O-29-2023  11-7-23     33.01  -
                       33.05
O-30-2023  11-14-23    T.S.O. XIII
O-31-2023  12-19-23    37.08
O-33-2023  12-19-23    34.01
O-1-2024   2-6-24      42.01 -
                       42.12
O-2-2024   2-6-24   T.S.O. IV
O-3-2024   2-27-24     T.S.O. I
O-4-2024   3-4-24      34.01
O-5-2024   3-5-24      31.16
O-6-2024   4-16-24     T.S.O. X
O-7-2024   4-16-24     T.S.O. X
O-9-2024   5-14-24     34.01
O-10-2024  6-11-24     T.S.O. IV
O-13-2024  6-17-24     34.01
O-14-2024  7-30-24     150.01,
                       150.02
O-15-2024  8-13-24     T.S.O. IV
                       37.01,
                       37.02,
O-17-2024  9-17-24     37.04 -
                       37.07,
                       37.09
O-18-2024  10-22-24    34.01
O-19-2024  11-19-24    T.S.O. XIII
O-20-2024  11-19-24    157.01
O-21-2024  11-19-24    157.01
O-22-2024  11-19-24    122.01 -
                       122.07
O-16-2024  12-4-24     T.S.O. I
O-23-2024  12-17-24    157.01
O-25-2024  12-17-24    34.01
O-26-2024  12-17-24    34.01
                      
 
