FOREST HILLS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 16-03, passed 6-13-16; and
State legislation current through 2018 KRS Pamphlet
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Territorial jurisdiction
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Computation of time
   
10.06   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.07   Writings and signatures
   
10.08   Severability
   
10.09   Revivor
   
10.10   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.11   Construction of section references
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances saved
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Conflicting provisions
   
10.17   Reference to offices
   
10.18   Errors and omissions
   
10.19   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Forest Hills Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.  Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.  (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION.  Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.  (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL.  Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being. 
(KRS 446.010 (2))
   AVIS.  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.  (KRS 446.010 (55))
   CERTIFIED MAIL.  Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.  (KRS
446.010(8))
   CITY,MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  When used in this code shall
denote the City of Forest Hills irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION.  The City Commission.  (KRS 83A.010 (3))
   COMPANY.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.  (KRS 446.010 (9))
   CORPORATION.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010 (10))
   COUNTY.  Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY.  As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010 (12))
   DIRECTORS.  When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. 
(KRS 446.010 (13))
   DOMESTIC.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, means all those
incorporated or formed by authority of this state.  (KRS 446.010 (14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.  The City Commission.  (KRS 83A.010 (6))
   FEDERAL.  Refers to the United States.  (KRS 446.010 (17))
   FOREIGN.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010
(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS.  Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.  (KRS
446.010 (23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The City Commission.  (KRS 91A.010 (8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.  A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010 (8))
   LIVESTOCK.  Cattle, sheep, swine, goats,. horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species.
(KRS 446.010 (25))
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.  (KRS 446.010 (26))
   MONTH.  Calendar month.  (KRS 446.010 (27))
   MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Forest Hills, Kentucky.
   OATH.  Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.  (KRS 446.010 (28))
   PEACE OFFICER.  Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.  (KRS
446.010 (31))
   PERSON.  May extend and be applied to bodies- politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.  (KRS 446.010 (33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.  (KRS 446.010 (36))
   REGULAR ELECTION.  The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010 (37))
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.  (KRS 446.010 (39))
   SWORN.  Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.  (KRS 446.010 (43))
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Kentucky.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE.  Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.  (KRS 446.010 (46))
   VIOLATE.  Includes failure to comply with.  (KRS 446.010 (47))
   YEAR.  Calendar year.  (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03  TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   All provisions of this code of ordinances are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the city.
('81 Code, § 130.3, § 1 (b))
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural.  A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.  (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine.  A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction.  All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.  (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity.  No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.  (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms.  All words and phrases shall be construed according
to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law, shall be construed according to such meaning.  (KRS 446.080 (4))
   (F)   A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to be
limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.  ('81 Code, §
130.3, § 2 (c))
§ 10.05  COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included.  The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.  When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time.  If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.06  MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.  (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.07  WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.08  SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.09  REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.10  RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty,
forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
before the new ordinance takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter
had shall conform, so far as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of
such proceedings.  If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by
any provision of the new ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the
party affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance
takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.11  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.15  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.  Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages.  Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.16  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail.  If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.17  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.18  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling  shall be corrected,
and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text as originally published.  No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.19  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1- 80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute.  Example:  (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).  If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further
information.  Example:
   § 31.10  CITY COMMISSION.
      The executive and legislative authority of the city shall be vested in
and exercised by the City Commission.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the City Commission, see KRS 83A.140
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
CHAPTER 11:  CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official city map
§ 11.01  OFFICIAL CITY MAP.
   The boundaries of this city are declared to be as indicated on the map
attached hereto and incorporated herein as a part of this code of ordinances.
('81 Code, § 110.1)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
39.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140 (1))
§ 30.02  GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.  (KRS 83A.140 (2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.  (KRS 83A.030 (2))  ('81 Code, § 120.2, § 1)
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Pay classification plan
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Non-elected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37   Building Official
   
31.38   City Administrator
Other City Officials
   
31.50   City Attorney
   
31.51   Police Chief
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath.  Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath:  “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of             , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption  of the present Constitution, I being a 
citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as
established by section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond.  Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected.  An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees and
non-elected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Am. Ord. 94-1, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-15-94)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03  PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   Elected officials.
      (1)   The compensation of the Mayor is hereby fixed at the sum of $6,000
per year, payable at $500 per month, commencing with the beginning of the
Mayor’s new term, July 2014.
      (2)   The compensation of each City Commissioner is hereby fixed at the
sum of  $4,200 per year, payable at $350 per month, commencing with the
beginning of the Commissioner’s new term, January 2013.
      (3)   The amount of compensation for each of the elected officials shall
be recomputed annual under the “rubber dollar” theory as referenced in KRS
83A.075. The salaries shall be fixed in division (A)(1) and (2) as of January
2011.  Every year thereafter, the salaries shall be adjusted, based on the
“rubber dollar” increase amount as determined by the Kentucky Department of
Local Government (or its successor entity), with any increase to become
effective as of July 1.
   (B)   Non-elected officials.
      (1)   Compensation for the City Clerk shall be $550 per month.
      (2)   Compensation for the Police Chief shall be $725 per month.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-26-12)
§ 31.04  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.  Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal.  No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing.  The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record.  No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers.  Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.  Upon
removal of a non-elected officer at will, the Commission shall give the officer
a written statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. 
However, this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-
will dismissal power of the Commission.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 31.20  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As of the effective date of this section, the nonpartisan primary
election for the nomination of candidates to elected city offices is hereby
eliminated as authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b).  All candidates for elected city
offices shall file their nomination paper with the County Clerk of the county
no later than 68 days before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding the
regular election.  All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time when filed on the last day on which such papers are
permitted to be filed.  The election of candidates to  all  elected  city
offices shall be  governed  by  the provisions of this section and by the
applicable provisions of KRS Chapters 83A and 116 to 121.  (Ord. 89-11, passed
3-7-89)
   (B)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (C)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (D)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (E)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (F)   The city may not create any elected office.  Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (C), (D), and (E) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (3), (4)
§ 31.21  MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election.  A candidate for mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election. 
His term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for four years and until his successor qualifies.  If a
person is elected or appointed as mayor in response to a vacancy and serves
less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications.  The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.  If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days.  If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040 (2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor.  (KRS 83A.040 (3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission.  The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the City Commission occurring after the
date specified in the written letter of resignation.  (KRS 83A.040 (7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.  (KRS 83A.040 (8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. 
(KRS 83A.040 (2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140 (4))  ('81 Code, § 140.1, § 1) 
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem.  The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his office and he shall then possess all
rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties continues
for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a
majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division (C)
above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140 (4))
§ 31.22  COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35  ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   All non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.  Upon removal of a non-
elected officer at will, the Commission shall give the officer a written
statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal.  However, this
requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal
power of the Commission.
   (D)   The following are non-elected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   City Manager
      (3)   City Administrator
      (4)   Chief of Police
      (5)   Building Official;
      (6)   Fire Chief, other than a volunteer fire chief.
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2), (3)
§ 31.36  CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city,
including ordinances and municipal orders.
      (2)   Signing the official record of each meeting.
('81 Code, § 130.4, § 1)
      (3)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882.
      (4)   Keeping the seal of the city and affixing it when required by law
and attest all public instruments and all official acts of the City Commission.
      (5)   No later than January 31 of each year, mailing to the Department
for Local Government a list containing current city information including but
not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following
appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (6)   Keeping a true and complete record of all proceedings of the City
Commission, and such other records as the Commission may direct.
      (7)   Maintenance of a code or composite index of ordinances in
accordance with statutory requirements.
      (8)   Keeping and indexing all public records of the city, including all
grants, contracts, title to property owned by the city and special ordinances;
and making copies of any such documents, records and papers of the city as may
be required by any person, and charge, collect and pay into the city treasury
such fee as will pay for the cost of such copies.
      (9)   Administering any oath taken by a city officer or employee, if
other statutory requirements are met.
('81 Code, § 140.2, § 2)
      (10)   Keeping all city funds coming into the office, and giving
duplicate receipts for all such funds, and keeping one such receipt on file;
and paying out city funds only on warrants signed by him and countersigned by
the Mayor.
      (11)   Making quarterly settlements, and upon approval by the Commission,
each settlement shall be included in the minutes of the Commission meeting.
      (12)   Making monthly reports to the Commission and Mayor that show the
state of finances of the city and the amounts received and spent during the
month, which reports shall be filed; and making an annual report at the close
of the fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts and expenditures of
the city and the transactions during the preceding year.
('81 Code, § 140.3, § 2)
      (13)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk or the City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02. The Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the Mayor.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(Am. Ord. 95-8, passed 12-11-95)
§ 31.37  BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Building Official. This
office shall be under the jurisdiction of the Building Official. The Building
Official shall be employed by the city on a contractual basis, and shall serve
as Building Code Official and architectural and engineering consultant to the
city. He shall meet the qualifications required by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky. The Building Official may also hold other public or private
employment.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the office of the Building Official
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Provide enforcement and administration of the city building
regulations and sign ordinances.
      (2)   Render advice on architectural, engineering and construction
questions affecting the city, whenever requested to do so by any city official.
      (3)   Draft or supervise the phraseology of ordinances covering building
regulations, signs and other areas related to architecture, engineering or
construction.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Building Official unless
such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and conditioned upon performance of the duties
specified herein.
   (D)   The Building Official shall report to the Mayor.
(Am. Ord. 95-8, passed 12-11-95)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Building Official, see
Ch. 150
§ 31.38  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Administrator.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as
follows:
      (1)   Advise the executive authority of the city in policy formulation on
overall problems of the city;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the executive
authority by appropriate order;
      (3)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs; and
      (4)   Carry out all additional duties lawfully delegated by appropriate
order of the executive authority, and have the same powers as the executive
authority in carrying out those duties.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed shall be that set forth in Section
228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Before entering the duties of his office, the City Administrator shall
execute bond to the city, with a corporate surety authorized and qualified to
become surety on bond in this state, in an amount to be established by the City
Commission.
   (E)   Compensation for this office shall as established by ordinance.
OTHER CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.50  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be employed by the city on a contractual
basis, and shall serve as the general law officer and legal counsel of the
city.  He shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.  He shall be chosen solely on the basis of his legal qualifications,
with special emphasis on actual experience in or knowledge of Kentucky
municipal and administrative law.  The City Attorney may also engage in the
private practice of law and may hold other public or private employment.
   (B)   The duties of the City Attorney shall be as follows:
      (1)   The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may
be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the city
on behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
city.
      (2)   To see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered
or entered in favor of the city, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
      (3)   He shall be the legal advisor to city officials and the City
Commission and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city,
whenever requested to do so by any city official.  Upon request of the
Commission, he shall reduce any such opinion in writing.
      (4)   He shall see to the completion of all special assessment
proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
      (5)   He shall draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease
or other documents or instruments, to which the city may be a party; and upon
request of the Commission, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the
power of the city.
      (6)   He shall perform such other duties as are prescribed by ordinance.
      (7)   The City Attorney shall report to the Mayor.
('81 Code, § 250.1, § 2)  (Am. Ord. 95-8, passed 12-11-95)
§ 31.51  POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see §
36.11.
CHAPTER 32:  CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
   
32.48   Numbering of ordinances
   
32.49   Numbering and maintenance of municipal orders
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election.  A candidate for commission
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications.  A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation.  For provisions concerning compensation, see §§
31.02 and
31.03.
§ 32.02  VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.  If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled.  If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum.  Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission.  The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Commission
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.  (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily  by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.  (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies.  If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission.  The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140 (3)) ('81 Code, § 120.2)
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties.  (KRS 83A.140 (5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibili-ties of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.  (KRS 83A.140 (8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.  (KRS 83A.140 (8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources.  (KRS 83A.140
(8))
   (F)   The Commission shall appoint all members of committees, commissions
and other agencies requiring representation of the city unless otherwise
provided by statute or municipal order.  ('81 Code, § 140.1, § 1)
§ 32.04  EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140 (6))
   (C)   Each member of the Commission shall report in writing to the
Commission once a month on the condition of his respective department. ('81
Code, § 210.1, §§ 1, 3)
Cross-reference:
   Departments of city government, see §
36.01
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20  MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The  Mayor  shall  preside at all  meetings  of  the Commission and may vote
in all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meeting date for all regular meetings of the City Commission is
hereby set for the second Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. local time, except
that the meeting will be the third Monday in any month when the second Monday
is a legal holiday.  The meeting will be held at the Community of Christ
Church, 2401 Merriwood Drive, Forest Hills, Kentucky 40299.
   (B)   Special meetings and public hearings may be called at any time by the
Mayor or any three members of the Commission upon written notice delivered at
least 24 hours prior to the time for the meeting.
('81 Code, § 130.1) (Am. Ord. 84-1, passed 1-1-84; Am. Ord. 90-1, passed 2-5-
90; Am. Ord. 91-1, passed 2-14-91; Am. Ord. 92-1, passed 2-3-92; Am. Ord. 93-1,
passed 3-1-93; Am. Ord. 93-6, passed 7-6-93; Am. Ord. 94-3, passed 3-15-94; Am.
Ord. 95-1, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-1, passed
1-13-97; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 2-9-98)
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140 (7))
§ 32.22  QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35  ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36  INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Forest Hills.”
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37  FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it.  Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket.  The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38  READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days.  The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance.  Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4),(7))
§ 32.39  ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized  standard code and codifications of entire bodies of
local legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.40  OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city.  The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.41  INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8)) ('81 Code, § 130.4, § 2(a),(b))
§ 32.42  PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If  the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads,
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.43  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.44  PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.45  MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders, all of  which shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting.  Orders may be
amended only by subsequent municipal order or
ordinance.  All orders adopted shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.46  PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.47  LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
§ 32.48  NUMBERING OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances adopted by the city shall be numbered in accordance with the
Kentucky Ordinance Code Topical Numbering System.
   (A)   The text of each general ordinance shall be kept in a loose-leaf
binder with tabbed dividers arranged and numbered according to the Kentucky
Ordinance Code Topical Numbering System with an alphabetical index.
   (B)   Each month every ordinance or amendment adopted during the month shall
be assigned a KOC number, listed by topic and date of passage and publication
and placed in the appropriate place in the binder.
   (C)   Once a year all additions or amendments shall be incorporated in the
text of the code and in  the alphabetical index.
   (D)   At least once every five years the text of the Code shall be examined
for consistency with state law and with other provisions and revised to
eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid provisions.
('81 Code, § 130.4, § 2(c) - (f))
§ 32.49  NUMBERING AND MAINTENANCE OF MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   All municipal orders of the city shall be numbered and maintained as
follows:
      10.0 Contracts
      11.0 Purchases
      12.0 Public Improvements and Construction
      13.0 Personal Services
      14.0 Emergencies
      15.0 Procurement Regulations
      20.0 Personnel
      21.0 Job Description and Classification
      22.0 Testing and Employment
      23.0 Position Compensation
      24.0 Employee Rules and Procedures
      25.0 Disciplinary Action
      26.0 Affirmative Action Plan
      30.0 Organization and Administration
      31.0 Management Positions
      32.0 Departments, Agencies and Functions
      33.0 Interlocal Cooperation
      34.0 Conduct of Meetings
      35.0 Administrative Code
      40.0 Appointments
      41.0 Independent Boards and Commissions
      42.0 Joint Agencies
      43.0 Representatives of Local Government
      50.0 Resolutions
      51.0 Policy Statements
      52.0 Commendation
      53.0 Other
      60.0 Miscellaneous
('81 Code, § 130.4, § 3)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.04   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.05   Purchases and contracts
   
33.06   Investment of funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Budget Procedures
   
33.30   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.31   Collection of information on cost and projected cost of city government
operations; examination of records
   
33.32   Public hearing for proposals concerning revenue and use of public funds
   
33.33   Budget proposal specifications
   
33.34   Submission of budget proposal at public hearing
   
33.35   Submission of budget proposal to City Commission
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET.  A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE.  The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES.  Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation.  An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.  Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING.  Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02  ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03  ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall
after the close of each odd- numbered fiscal year cause each fund of the city
to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified public
accountant.  The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately following
the fiscal year to be audited.  Within ten days of the completion of the audit
and its presentation to the City Commission, pursuant to division (D)(5) of
this section, the city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to
the Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (B)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and has no long-term debt,
whether general obligation or revenue debt, it shall not be required to audit
each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year.  The city shall annually
prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and shall, not
later than October 1 following the conclusion of the fiscal year, forward one
electronic copy to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) and (B) of this section to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the
Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (D)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor.  The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the
agreement which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements.
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495.  The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under the
circumstances.  Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized.
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
is considered
satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to the city for
financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or requirements
of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the purposes of
KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Commission, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter
424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required thereby,
are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the officer
responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500.  In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city.  The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent the city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the
city may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department
for Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local
Government. The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it
is submitted on or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit
or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an
extension for the city and the city fails to complete and submit the required
audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then
the provisions of division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A), (B) and
(H) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A), (B) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination,
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Governor’s Office for Local Development to provide assistance, see KRS
91A.050
§ 33.04  OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth.  The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 USC 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS.41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.  All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable.  Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.05  PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Every contract of the city shall be approved by the City Commission
and signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   No contract or purchase shall be made which is at variance with the
annual budget as amended.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures may be used for all items which are
reasonably expected to aggregate less than $10,000 for the fiscal year and such
items shall be determined in writing by the Commission at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
   (D)   All contracts which exceed $10,000 in the aggregate shall be awarded
to the lowest bidder through competitive sealed bidding; provided, the lowest
evaluated bid may be accepted if the basis for evaluation is stated in the
specifications.
   (E)   Competitive sealed bidding may be waived on recommendation of the
Finance Commissioner that an emergency exists which will cause public harm by
the delay required by competitive bidding.
('81 Code, § 240.1)
§ 33.06  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A) The Mayor of the City, Commission member assigned to finance, and the
City Clerk shall invest and oversee the investment of funds.
   (B)   All funds shall be invested only in certificates of deposit or
interest-bearing accounts in banks which are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or a similar entity.
   (C)   The City Clerk or Commissioner assigned to finance shall provide a
report at each meeting of the City Commission concerning the status of all
investments of the city.
   (D)   Investments in certificates of deposit or interest-bearing  accounts
shall be diversified to ensure that the insurance provisions of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar agencies remain in effect for all of
the funds invested.
(Ord. 94-9, passed 12-5-94)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST.  All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS.  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY.  Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT.  A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11  FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.  (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12  APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization.  The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13  COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.  Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines  to  proceed  shall adopt an  ordinance so stating and containing
all necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties.  Promptly upon passage the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16  AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment.  If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments.  After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17  WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement.  The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property  to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement.  The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.  No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18  EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
BUDGET PROCEDURES
§ 33.30  ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.  No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed in §§
33.30 through
33.34.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers.  The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal.  The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds
most efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission.  Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee thereof, may
bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at that time
appropriated for the purpose of the agency.  All contracts, agreements, and
obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing appropriations are void;
nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the balance of
any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.31  COLLECTION OF INFORMATION ON COST AND PROJECTED COST OF CITY
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS; EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Finance Commissioner shall collect information on the cost of city
government operations for the fiscal year within 60 days prior to the Public
Use Hearing.
   (A)   The Finance Commissioner, in his discretion, may confer with any city
employees and examine any city records.
   (B)   The Finance Commissioner shall obtain an estimate of the revenue
anticipated and the cost of such operations for the next fiscal year.
('81 Code, § 220.1, § 1)
§ 33.32  PUBLIC HEARING FOR PROPOSALS CONCERNING REVENUE AND USE OF PUBLIC
FUNDS.
   A public hearing shall be held to solicit proposals concerning revenue and
the use of public funds for the fiscal year.
   (A)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   The public hearing may be held concurrently with other meetings on the
use of public funds.
   (C)   The Finance Commissioner shall present a statement of the projects and
activities conducted by the city for the fiscal year ending and their costs,
together with an estimate of the cost to continue said projects and activities
for the next fiscal year.
('81 Code, § 220.1, § 2)
§ 33.33  BUDGET PROPOSAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Finance Commissioner shall prepare a budget proposal for the next fiscal
year in the following form and detail:
   (A)   The ad valorem tax rate shall be stated in cents per $100 of assessed
valuation.
   (B)   The amount of revenue anticipated from each of the following sources
shall be stated in total dollars:
      (1)   Taxes and special assessments;
      (2)   Licenses and permits;
      (3)   Fines, forfeits and other penalties;
      (4)   Rental and interest income;
      (5)   Charges for current services;
      (6)   Sales and compensation for loss of fixed assets;
      (7)   Federal grants and receipts from other agencies;
      (8)   Bond proceeds;
      (9)   Transfers from other funds.
   (C)   Expenditures shall be listed in total dollars by the following
categories:
      (1)   General government;
      (2)   Public safety;
      (3)   Streets and public works;
      (4)   Sanitation and waste removal;
      (5)   Health;
      (6)   Welfare;
      (7)   Culture and recreation;
      (8)   Debt service;
      (9)   Reserve for contingencies.
   (D)   Revenue sharing receipts and expenditures shall be listed separately.
('81 Code, § 220.1, § 3)
§ 33.34  SUBMISSION OF BUDGET PROPOSAL AT PUBLIC HEARING.
   The budget proposal shall be submitted to the public for comment at a
hearing prior to submission to the City Commission.
   (A)   Notice of the public hearing shall be in accordance with KRS Chapter
424.
   (B)   All citizens who attend shall have the right to provide written or
oral comments and to ask questions concerning the budget proposal.
   (C)   The public hearing may be held concurrently with other public meetings
relating to the budget.
('81 Code, § 220.1, § 4)
§ 33.35  SUBMISSION OF BUDGET PROPOSAL AT PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Finance Commissioner shall submit the budget proposal to the City
Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers, and it shall be accompanied by a message from the Mayor that explains:
   (A)   The government goals fixed by the budgets;
   (B)   Important features of the activities anticipated in the budget;
   (C)   Changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and
   (D)   Major changes in fiscal policy.
('81 Code, § 220.1, § 5)
Cross-reference:
   Preparation of budget procedure, see §
33.30(F)
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY.  The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.  COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN.  The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.  The CUSTODIAN having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING.  Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA.  The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his
actual personal custody and control.  The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON.  A human being who makes a bodily appearance before the office of
the custodian and makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  The city  governing body, and any other municipal
department, board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
council, or agency thereof, as all these are more specifically defined and set
forth in KRS 61.870(1).
   PUBLIC RECORDS.  All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation materials regardless of
physical form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of, or retained by a public agency.  PUBLIC RECORDS shall not
include any records owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS
61.870(1)(h) that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or
operations funded by state or local authority nor any records that have been
excluded by §
34.26.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE.  The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of and/or mailing public records which shall not exceed the actual cost
thereof and shall not include the cost of staff time required.
   REQUEST.  An oral petition by any person or, at the option of the custodian,
the completion of a written application that clearly states the specific public
record or records that are desired for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.870)
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system.  SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15  INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.22, any person desiring  to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request or complete a written application for such records at the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer during regular office hours, except during
legal holidays.  (KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with the open records law and the requested records are immediately available,
the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection.  Suitable facilities
shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for the
inspection.  No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices of any public agency without the written permission of the official
custodian of the record.  (KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When copies are
requested, the custodian may require a written request and advance payment of
the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.  (KRS 61.874(1))
§ 34.16  REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17  PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.18  REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof.  However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.19  TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision.  Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld.  The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.20  CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21  ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22  FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.23  FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24  MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25  ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in § 34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26  PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research.  This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth.  This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired.  The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication.  Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action.  The exemptions provided by this
subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or
impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.  These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division:  detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.  In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of § 34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him.  Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation.  A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.27  NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35:  TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   Application of provisions
   
35.02   Date of assessment for real property subject to taxation
   
35.03   County assessment adopted
   
35.04   Ad valorem tax rate
   
35.05   Disbursement of tax revenues
   
35.06   Preparation and mailing of tax bill
   
35.07   Payment of taxes
   
35.08   Due date; delinquency
   
35.09   Notice of due date
   
35.10   Lien to secure payment; collection of delinquent taxes
   
35.11   Filing of statement with County Clerk; notice of delinquent tax lien
   
35.12   Ad valorem tax on personal property, including motor vehicles and
business inventory
§ 35.01  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The following provisions for the assessment, levying and collection of city
ad valorem taxes shall apply for the period commencing on July 1 and ending on
June 30 of each year, which is the fiscal year of the city.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.02  DATE OF ASSESSMENT FOR REAL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAXATION.
   January 1 of each year is hereby set as the assessment date for all real
property subject to city taxation within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.03  COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   The assessment of real property made by the Property Valuation Administrator
of Jefferson County, after any corrections by the Jefferson County Board of
Equalization, is hereby adopted as the city assessment for city ad valorem tax
purposes.  In the event than any change in the county assessment is made after
the city tax bills have been prepared, any affected city tax bills shall be
amended accordingly.  Any additional taxes owing shall be due without penalty
or interest within 60 days after the date of amended bill; and any excess taxes
paid shall be refunded without interest within 60 days after the date of the
amended bill.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.04  AD VALOREM TAX RATE.
   The city hereby levies an ad valorem tax on real property at the rate as
established by the City Commission on each $100 of assessed valuation.  In the
event that the rate is subsequently determined by a court of last resort to be
excessive, then the city hereby adopts the maximum ad valorem tax rate allowed
by law in lieu of the rate established as set forth above.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.05  DISBURSEMENT OF TAX REVENUES.
   The revenues from the taxes, interest and penalties, shall be used for
general operating expenses of the city and for general purposes of the city in
the discharge of its municipal functions as ordained or resolved by the City
Commissioners.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.06  PREPARATION AND MAILING OF TAX BILL.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer is directed to obtain from the Jefferson County
Valuation Administrator a true copy of the county assessment of the real
property and to request the Administrator to prepare the city tax bills
therefrom.  Each bill shall show the property taxes, taxable assessment, amount
of tax due, dates due and payable, and name and address of the owner.  The city
shall pay to the Jefferson County Property Valuation Administrator when billed
the fee prescribed by KRS 132.285 for the services.  The City Clerk/ Treasurer
shall mail the tax bills no later than December 15 of each year.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.07  PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The taxes shall be paid to the order of the City of Forest Hills; all
payments shall be delivered to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.08  DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY.
   The taxes shall be due and payable as follows:
   (A)   If paid by December 31 (the due date), face amount of bill.  The taxes
not paid by the due date are delinquent and shall be due and payable as set out
in divisions (B) through (D) of this section.
   (B)   If paid by January 31, following their due date, face amount of bill
plus 2% of face amount.
   (C)   If paid by March 31, following their due date, face amount of bill
plus 14% of face amount.
   (D)   If paid after March 31, following their due date, same amount as if
paid by March 31, plus 2% of the face amount for each month or portion of each
month after March 31, plus an additional penalty of 10% of face amount.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.09  NOTICE OF DUE DATE.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the due date of the taxes to
be advertised as provided in KRS Chapter 424.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.10  LIEN TO SECURE PAYMENT; COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The city shall have a lien as provided by KRS 92.650 and KRS 134.420 to
secure the payment of the taxes, interest and penalties and also any fees,
commissions, charges and other expenses incurred in the collection of any
delinquent taxes.  Collection of any delinquent taxes  shall be made in a
manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.11  FILING OF STATEMENT WITH COUNTY CLERK; NOTICE OF DELINQUENT TAX LIEN.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall file with the Jefferson County Clerk the
statement required by KRS 92.637 between 90 days and 120 days after the taxes
become due and payable.  Also the City Clerk/Treasurer shall file the notice of
delinquent tax lien required by KRS 134.420.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 92-7, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-3, passed
3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed 3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-2, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord.
96-2, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 1-13- 97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-7-
98)
§ 35.12  AD VALOREM TAX ON PERSONAL PROPERTY, INCLUDING MOTOR VEHICLES AND
BUSINESS INVENTORY.
   (A)   An ad valorem tax is hereby imposed upon all motor vehicles held or
owned by any person, corporation or association in any name, or its agent,
within the city, which is subject to taxation under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All ad valorem property taxes shall be paid to the City Clerk/
Treasurer, except all ad valorem property taxes on motor vehicles shall be
collected by the Jefferson County Clerk in conformity with KRS 132.487.
   (C)   The City Commission shall set the tax rate on all motor vehicles for
the ad valorem tax.
   (D)   All property subject to taxation within the city shall be assessed for
taxation purposes as of January 1 of each year.
   (E)   For purposes of the levying and collection of this ad valorem taxes on
motor vehicles, the city shall use the assessment required to be made pursuant
to KRS 132.487(5).
   (F)   The rate of tax upon all property described above shall be at the rate
as established by the City Commission on each $100 of assessed valuation.
(Ord. 91-6, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 93-2, passed 3-1-93; Am. Ord. 94-5, passed
3-15-94; Am. Ord. 95-3, passed 1-9-95; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 2-5-96; Am. Ord.
97-3, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 2-9- 98)
CHAPTER 36:  DEPARTMENTS
Section
Departments of City Government
   
36.01   Establishment
Police Department
   
36.10   Supervision of police function
   
36.11   Chief of Police
   
36.12   Division of Police
   
36.13   Designation of place of incarceration for prisoners
DEPARTMENTS OF CITY GOVERNMENT
§ 36.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The following departments are established and each is responsible for the
implementation of ordinances, statutes and public policies (including city
contracts) which relate to the respective activities within the city:
   (A)   Administrative Department.
      (1)   Personnel procedures and rules.
      (2)   Position classification and pay plan.
      (3)   Equal employment opportunity.
      (4)   Purchases and contracts.
      (5)   Inventory of city property.
   (B)   Finance Department.
      (1)   Preparation of proposed budget.
      (2)   Accounting records and financial reports in accordance with
accepted governmental accounting practices.
      (3)   Annual audit.
   (C)   Public Works Department.
      (1)   Streets and street lighting.
      (2)   Public facilities.
      (3)   Water and sewer.
   (D)   Safety Department.
      (1)   Traffic regulations.
      (2)   Ordinances containing penalties.
      (3)   Building and housing.
   (E)   Sanitation Department.
      (1)   Solid waste collection and disposal.
      (2)   Animals and fowl.
      (3)   Weeds.
('81 Code, § 210.1, § 2)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.10  SUPERVISION OF POLICE FUNCTION.
   The police function shall be supervised by the Commissioner of the Safety
Department.
('81 Code, § 320.1, § 2)
§ 36.11  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is created the office of the Chief of Police.  The City
Commission shall appoint the Chief of Police, who shall hold office for two
years coinciding with the term of the Commissioners, subject to removal by the
City Commission at any time without cause.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have all the duties prescribed in this code
of ordinances.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall take the oath required by the Kentucky
Constitution before entering upon any duties of the office.
   (D)   The compensation for the office of Chief of Police shall be as set by
ordinance and may be hereafter changed as prescribed by statute.
('81 Code, § 140.5)
§ 36.12  DIVISION OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Division of Police for the city which
shall be responsible for enforcement and maintenance of law and order and
compliance with traffic regulations within the corporate boundaries of the city
in accordance with policies and guidelines established by the City Commission.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be the chief administrative officer of the
Division of Police and shall select such personnel as are authorized by the
City Commission and shall assign their duties and hours and shall direct and
supervise their work.  All Division of Police personnel shall be appointed in
accordance with the personnel rules or administrative code of the city.
   (C)   Additional police officers as may be appointed to the Division of
Police shall be appointed for a term of office not to exceed 12 months. 
Qualifications for members of the Division of Police shall be such as set forth
in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.  The City Commission shall fix the salary for
each position in the Division of Police.
('81 Code, § 320.2)
§ 36.13  DESIGNATION OF PLACE OF INCARCERATION FOR PRISONERS.
   The City Commission hereby designates the Jefferson County Jail as the place
of incarceration for any prisoners arrested within the city or by any police
officer of the city.
(Ord. 91-13, passed 11-4-91)
CHAPTER 37:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Affirmative Action Plan for
Equal Employment Opportunity
   
37.01   Statement of policy
   
37.02   Dissemination of policy
   
37.03   Personnel actions
   
37.04   Workforce utilization
   
37.05   Responsibility for implementation
   
37.06   Evaluation and reports
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN FOR
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
§ 37.01  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The affirmative action policy of the city is to promote equal employment
opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in employment on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age or handicapped status; and to bring
about a fair representation and utilization of females and minorities on all
levels of city employment.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 1)
§ 37.02  DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   The city will advise all employees and applicants for employment of this
policy and will post it in a conspicuous place.  The city will make known to
the public that employment opportunities are available on the basis of
individual ability and will encourage all persons who are employed by the city
to strive for advancement on that basis.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 2)
§ 37.03  PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
   The city will actively recruit qualified or qualifiable persons among
females and minorities on a non-discriminatory basis for all available job
openings at every level; and the city will ensure every employee equal
treatment in respect to terms and conditions of employment, job assignments,
compensation, access to training and promotions.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 3)
§ 37.04  WORKFORCE UTILIZATION.
   The city will analyze the utilization of females and minorities in its
workforce and compare it with the utilization by all employers in the county
according to the latest official census.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 4)
§ 37.05  RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Administrative Commissioner shall be responsible for implementation of
this affirmative action plan, including maintenance of the workforce analysis
and job roster and hearing complaints of discrimination by any employees or
prospective employees of the city with a final appeal to the city legislative
body.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 5)
§ 37.06  EVALUATION AND REPORTS.
   The person given responsibility for implementation of this plan shall
examine its operation periodically and shall report the progress being made,
together with recommendations for improvement in the plan, to the legislative
body at least once every year.
('81 Code, § 230.1, § 6)
CHAPTER 38:  ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Purposes
   
38.01   Title
   
38.02   Purpose and authority
   
38.03   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.17   Receipt of gifts
   
38.18   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.19   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.20   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.21   Post-employment restriction
   
38.22   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.30   Who must file
   
38.31   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.32   Form of statement of financial interests
   
38.33   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.34   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.35   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.45   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.55   Board of Ethics created
   
38.56   Alternate members
   
38.57   Facilities and staff
   
38.58   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
38.59   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.60   Notice of hearing
   
38.61   Hearing procedure
   
38.62   Appeals
   
38.63   Limitation of actions
   
38.64   Advisory opinions
   
38.65   Reprisal against person disclosing violations prohibited
   
38.66   Penalties
   
38.67   Severability
   
38.68   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
38.69   Effective date
GENERAL PURPOSES
§ 38.01  TITLE.
   This section shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Forest Hills
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.02  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.03  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   BUSINESS.  Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS.  The City of Forest Hills Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE.  Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   CITY.  The City of Forest Hills, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY.  Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouses as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER.  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A legislative body member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Manager.
      (5)   The City Administrator.
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non- elected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.15  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duty.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in subsection (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any
business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than
any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.16  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an  elected  officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in
subsection (A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subpart (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition is subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
in any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds 
for  removal  from office or  employment  with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.17  RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall directly or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.18  USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any
city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personnel or real property for
the private use of any person, unless:
      (1)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy.
      (2)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.19  REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employer or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matter concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information or behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly, or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.20  MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.21  POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.22  HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value of greater than $100
in consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance,
speech or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency  from receiving and retaining from the city or on
behalf of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.30  WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
   (C)   Members of the city planning and zoning commission and board of
adjustment.
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter.
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or service, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $1,000.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.31  WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 12:00 p.m. February 1, 1995.  All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 12:00 p.m. on February 1 each year,
provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.32  FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics.  The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year. 
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.33  CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.34  CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the file's spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like).
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year at interest of $10,000 or more.
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.35  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. 
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
city ire a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 38.45  NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   employment;
      (2)   appointment;
      (3)   promotion;
      (4)   transfer; or
      (5)   advancement
      of a family member to an office or position of employment with the city
or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent  an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating
in the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibitions but which existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.55  BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be
appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter.  No member of
the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the
member initially appointed, one members shall be appointed for a term of one
years, one member shall be appointed for a term of two years and one member
shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be for a term of three years. No more than two of the members shall be of
the same political party. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a
resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of appointment and
shall reside in the city throughout the term of office. The members of the
Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent
reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The
members may be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the
legislative body.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body.  If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.56  ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called
upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his
or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.57  FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.58  POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connections with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To receive all statements of financial interests that are required to
be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are available for
public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the
Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.59  FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics.  The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which are issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a  confidential  reprimand to  the 
officer  or  employee
concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the confidential
reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the city or city
agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.60  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date.  The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.61  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The alleged violator, or his or her representative, shall
be entitled to know the source of documents or other information contained in
the complaint against the alleged violator. The Board shall inform the alleged
violator, or his or her representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its
possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross- examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberation in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the office or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.62  APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of final action by the Board of Ethics
by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall transmit
to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.63  LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.64  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A) The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions.  The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requester.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions.  All other advisory opinions shall be public documents, 
except that before an advisory opinion  is
made public, it shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated
with the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be terminated:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person.  The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered.  However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil prating for violations of this
chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.65  REPRISAL AGAINST PERSON DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.66  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer of employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation.  The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or any city agency, or by any
other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action
to remove or discipline any officer or employee  or a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.67  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is deemed by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable or unconstitutional, the remaining provision
of this chapter shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.68  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter
are hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
§ 38.69  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon publication
as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 12-5-94)
CHAPTER 39:  CITY POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Procedure for complaints and permits
§ 39.01  PROCEDURE FOR COMPLAINTS AND PERMITS.
   All city complaints for (a) violation of city ordinances, or (b) permits
required by city ordinance, shall be made in writing and addressed to the City
Clerk's attention at the official mailing address of the City of Forest Hills.
Upon receipt, the Clerk will forward the document to the appropriate party for
action. The Mayor will be the direct link between all city officials and the
Louisville Metro Department of Inspections Licenses and Permits regarding any
complaint. Depending on the nature of the complaint or request, any submitted
issue may be forwarded by the Clerk to the City Mayor, to the City Attorney, to
the City Engineer, to the Forest Hills Police, or to the appropriate Louisville
Metro Government agency.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 11-13-06)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection of garbage by city
   
50.03   Rules and regulations
   
50.04   Administration and enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES.  Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE.  Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE.  Combustible trash, including, but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding, noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste, street rubbish, including, but not limited to
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, and contents of litter
receptacles.  Provided, refuse shall not include solid wastes resulting from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boilerhouse cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
('81 Code, § 830.1, § 1)
§ 50.02  COLLECTION OF GARBAGE BY CITY.
   The city shall collect all garbage which is in a proper  receptacle and
placed in a convenient location  on the day specified for pickup; and garbage
shall be collected from each residence or place of business not less than once
each week.
('81 Code, § 3 (c))
§ 50.03  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city
any garbage, or other material, subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
except in a tightly covered metal container or enclosed trash bags.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on
any premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes
anywhere in the city except in an approved disposal device, or in a lawfully
established garbage or refuse dump.  Such material not so properly disposed of
shall be placed in containers for collection as prescribed in this chapter.
('81 Code, § 830.1, § 2)
   (D)   All garbage and waste material being held in the city for collection
by a garbage disposal company shall be kept and retained in a covered
receptacle designed to retain such garbage or waste.  No uncovered garbage can
or other receptacle shall be permitted. (Ord. 88-4, passed 7-5-88)
   (E)   Trash shall be bundled or placed in a receptacle for pickup at the
same location as garbage. ('81 Code, § 830.1, § 3 (d))
Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Times of pick up, see §
74.04
§ 50.04  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Sanitation shall be responsible  for enforcement
and administration of  this chapter; including collection of service charges,
the fixing of service charges for businesses, exemptions from payment of the
service charge for any dwelling unit, dates of collection, approval of disposal
device and the promulgation of such rules and guidelines as may appear
necessary for the efficient performance of the service.  The Commissioner of
Sanitation may delegate any tasks required of him by this chapter to such
persons as he may select.
   (B)   Any person who is adversely affected by any act or decision in the
enforcement of this chapter may appeal such act or decision to the City
Commission in writing within two weeks after notice of such act or decision. 
The Commission shall hear all evidence concerning the act or decision and any
reason therefor and within one week thereafter shall issue a decision in
writing confirming, modifying, or invalidating the act or decision.
('81 Code, § 830.1, § 3(a),(b))
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRUCKS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment, maintenance and placement of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officer
Speed Hump Installation
   
70.30   Definitions
   
70.31   Eligibility requirements
   
70.32   Speed hump removal and alteration
   
70.33   Speed hump location
   
70.34   Design standards and procedures
   
70.35   Procedures for speed hump installation
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD.  Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK.  That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB.  The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION.  That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET.  A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK.  When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET.  Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT.  The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN.  To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING.  As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET.  Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02  REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04  AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Commissioner of Safety and the Police
Department, and, except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
other person to direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or
any other signal.
('81 Code, § 510.1)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.  If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn.  However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal:  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter
and clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”:  Vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or
at such other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall
remain standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone:  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone:  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”:  Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights:  When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear.  However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane.  Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them.  If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16  ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.  All traffic-control devices, including
signs, shall be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation,
shall be uniform, and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly.  All
traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
   (B)   Stop or yield signs shall be posted on such streets at any
intersection the City Commission shall determine are necessary for proper
traffic control.
   (C)   Standard electric traffic signals, with three colors on a side; or
with red facing one street and amber facing the intersecting street, shall be
erected at such street intersections as the City Commission shall determine to
be necessary for proper traffic control.
('81 Code, § 530.1, §§ 1, 2)
§ 70.17  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
traffic signs and signals as set forth in KRS Chapter 189, or the signal of any
official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the provisions of
this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any of the public
departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric signal, gate, or
watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. 
However, the type and the right to or necessity for such barrier or sign must
be approved by the city.  ('81 Code, § 530.1, § 3)
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.  No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21  TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION
§ 70.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATIONS for speed humps include a petition of the affected property
owners.
   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION. "The process by which streets and highways are
grouped into classes or systems according to the character of service they are
intended to provide." (Highway Functional Classification and Needs Study
Manual)
      ARTERIAL SYSTEM. Provides for through traffic movement between areas and
across the city with limited access to abutting property, subject to access
controls and curb uses.
      COLLECTOR SYSTEM. Provides for traffic movement between arterials and
local streets, with limited access to abutting properties.
      LOCAL SYSTEM. Provides direct access to abutting properties.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS. Include single-family houses, townhouses,
duplexes, triplexes and quadplexes.
   MUTCD.Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   ROADWAYS. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SPEED HUMPS.   Geometric design feature of a roadway, consisting of a raised
area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the travel
way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling along
the roadway.
   STREET.  The street length that must be petitioned. It is a 1,200 foot
segment generally centered on the location of the humps, or length of the
block, whichever is greater. If the 1,200 foot segment extends into any part of
an adjacent block, it includes the entire length of the adjacent block, unless
separated by an intervening thoroughfare, traffic signal or offset
intersection.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.31  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)   Petition. A petition that documents that a minimum of 75% of the
property owners on a low density residential street (and any additional roadway
primarily served by the street on which the hump will be located) supports the
installation of speed humps.
   (B)   Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of low density
residential dwellings. This would include public roadways where 50% or more of
the residents are single family detached housing.
   (C)   Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must be used to provide access to abutting low density
residential properties. The street must not be identified as a collector of
higher level street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan,
Core Graphic 13.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   Traffic volumes must be more than 1,000 but less than 3,000
vehicles, two-way volume per day.
      (4)   Vehicle speed must exceed the speed criteria.
      (5)   The street must have a speed limit of 25 mph as determined in
accordance with the City of Forest Hills Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   The street must not be so close to a Fire Department facility as to
significantly interfere with emergency vehicle operations.
   (D)   Geometric characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must have adequate sight distances to safely accommodate
the hump as determined, in writing, by the city, as defined in the Traffic
Engineering Handbook.
      (2)   The street must not have curves or grades that prevent safe
placement of the humps. Humps may be located on streets that contain curves
and/or grades, but the hump itself shall not be located within a significant
horizontal curve, or a vertical grade greater than 8%.
      (3)   The street must be paved. If there are no curbs, a special design
of speed hump must be used to prevent vehicles from going around the speed
hump.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.32  SPEED HUMP REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.33  SPEED HUMP LOCATION.
   (A)   A speed hump will not be located in front of a property if the
property owner objects, in writing, to its placement or, in the case of
property containing low density multiple dwellings, if the majority of the
households on the property object to its placement. Fulfillment of this
requirement is the responsibility of the applicant(s).
   (B)   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and
operations requirements.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.34  DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards and
installation procedures for speed humps according to this policy.
   (B)   Application and design of speed humps shall comply with the Institute
of Transportation Engineers, Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the Design
and Application of Speed Humps.
   (C)   All signage and pavement markings shall comply with the current
edition of the MUTCD. Should signage and markings not be defined in the MUTCD,
they shall comply with ITE's Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the Design
and Application of Speed Humps.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.35  PROCEDURES FOR SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The initial request for the installation of speed humps must originate
from the property owners on the street. A request in writing from an individual
citizen or a representative of a neighborhood group must be forwarded to the
following address:
      City of Forest Hills
      P.O. Box 99604
      Louisville, KY 40209-0604
   (B)   The city will make a preliminary determination of eligibility based on
available traffic data in a timely matter.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible, the applicant's
representative will be given written notification of that determination and its
reasons.
      (2)   The decision may be appealed in writing to the city within 15 days
of the notification date.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible for consideration, a
meeting will be arranged between the applicant's representative, appropriate
city staff to define the petition area, the approximated speed hump location
range and funding options. The applicant's representative will be instructed to
submit a petition showing that a minimum of 75% of the property owners on the
street support the installation of speed humps as provided in the speed hump
policy. Only petition forms supplied by the city may be used for this purpose.
   (C)   After verification of the petitions, the city will conduct the
necessary transportation engineering studies, including but not limited to
traffic volume, accident and speed studies, and solicit comments and
recommendations of other agencies, including but not limited to emergency
service and Solid Waste Management. A determination of the street's eligibility
for speed hump installation will be made, in writing and in a timely manner, to
the applicant's representative based on the speed hump policy.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible for speed hump
installation, the applicant's representative will be notified in writing giving
the reason(s).
      (2)   The decision may be appealed within 15 days to City Commission.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible, the street will be
placed on a list of streets eligible for speed hump installation. The city will
notify, in writing, the applicant's representative.
   (D)   The city will make a determination of the total design, engineering
and installation costs according to the speed hump policy.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-14-05)
§ 70.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or
both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is
operating without obstructing the passage of traffic in or on the intersecting
street or crosswalk.  This provision shall be effective notwithstanding any
traffic control signal indication to proceed.  ('81 Code, § 530.1, § 4)
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.  Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.  A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.  On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.  The
operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley
from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the speed permitted by state law is
greater than is safe or reasonable under conditions existing on certain
streets, and certain areas within the incorporated limits of the city and,
therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle, except an
official vehicle during an emergency, at a speed in excess of the speeds
established by this section when signs are in place giving notice of such
speed.
   (B)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
residential by the City Commission shall be 25 miles per hour.
   (C)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
thoroughfares by the City Commission shall be 35 miles per hour.
   (D)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
arterial by the City Commission shall be 45 miles per hour.
   (E)   The maximum speed in any school zone during the time school is in
session and one and one-half hours before and after the actual school hours is
25 miles per hour.
   (F)   The City Commission designates as residential all streets within the
incorporated limits of the city.
('81 Code, § 520.1, §§ 1 - 6)
Cross-reference:
   Designation of streets; speed limits, see
Ch. 75, Schedule I.
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15  DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16  ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25  OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and,
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.   
(KRS 189.930)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27  SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle, when on a highway or on a highway right-of-way, shall be so
equipped as to make a  minimum of noise; smoke; gasoline, oil or other fluid
emission; or other nuisance in order to protect the rights of other traffic and
to promote the public safety.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE.  Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT.  A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   Filing period.  The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city.
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto.
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas.
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire.   (F)   The parade is scheduled to
move from its point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and
without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44  NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof.  If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45  APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission.  The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial.  The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46  ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant.  An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file
a written notice of his acceptance.  An alternate parade permit shall conform
to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under
this subchapter.
§ 71.47  NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48  CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49  DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances.  The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50  PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference.  No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades.  No driver of a vehicle except a police car
or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is herein provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment for not more than 30
days, or both for each offense..
   (B)   Whoever violates §
71.05 of this chapter or
Chapter 75, Schedule I shall be subject to the same penalties provided by KRS
189.394 as amended.  ('81 Code, § 520.1, § 7)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be fined not less than $60 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both.  (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking regulated during certain hours; permit parking
   
72.14   Erection of signs to designate restrictions on parking and stopping
   
72.15   Restrictions on stopping to take on or let out passengers
   
72.16   Posting of signs to designate “loading zone”; time limitations
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01  OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   No person shall park, or stop and leave standing, any vehicle upon a
public street in such a manner as to constitute double parking or to leave
available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic, and no person shall park or stop and leave standing a
vehicle within an alley or upon a street in such a position as to block any
driveway entrance or within a driveway in such a position as to block any
sidewalk.  Any vehicle parked or left standing within an alley or upon a street
shall have all wheels completely on the pavement.  ('81 Code, § 540.1, § 3)
(Am. Ord. 91-8, passed 10-14-91)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.  Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.  However, diagonal parking shall not
be established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten
feet of the center line of any street.  Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
      (2)   On a sidewalk.
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. 
This does not  apply  to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
(KRS 189.450(5))
      (8)   Within 30 feet of a stop sign.
      (9)   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
      (10)   In a front or side yard (as those terms are defined by the
regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission) of any
property in the city unless the parking area is graded, provided with adequate
drainage and surfaced in conformity with § 150.10 of this code of ordinances.
('81  Code,  § 540.1,  §  7)  (Am.  Ord.  82-11,  passed 11-1-82)
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area. (KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof.  However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day.  It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer. 
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07  PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08  PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off- street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10  PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.  However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a
motor vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose
of washing, greasing, painting or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
('81 Code, § 540.1, § 4)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12  PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any 
parking  limit is imposed may be parked  for  two hours in excess of the
parking limit.  The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that
period of  time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person
to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13  PARKING REGULATED DURING CERTAIN HOURS; PERMIT PARKING.
   (A)   Parking of automobiles is prohibited on all streets in the city
between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. local time except on Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays, except by permit described below.  On- street parking of
commercial vehicles owned or operated by residents of the city is prohibited at
all times in the city as is parking of trucks, recreational vehicles and vans,
except for service and delivery vehicles which may be parked for no more than
four hours unless a parking permit is issued.
   (B)   Appropriate “No Parking” signs shall be erected at all entrances to
the city and on all streets in the city.  Such signs shall conform to the
standards established by Kentucky state law.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Safety, or in his absence, his duly authorized
representative, shall issue parking permits upon advance good faith application
pursuant to the following standards.
      (1)   The application and permit shall be on the prescribed form, a copy
of which is attached to municipal order 82-10, passed 8-2-82 and incorporated
herein by reference.
      (2)   Application may be made by the owner of any real property in the
city or by any resident of the city.
      (3)   Application shall be made at least 24 hours in advance of the time
when the permit becomes effective.
      (4)   The applicant shall pay a fee of $0 at the time of application. 
The fee shall be deposited into the official depository of the city.
      (5)   The duration of the permit shall not exceed ten hours.
      (6)   The number of vehicles permitted shall not exceed 25 vehicles.  The
vehicles shall be parked within reasonable proximity of the permittee's address
shown on the permit.
(Municipal Order 82-10, passed 8-2-82)  (Am. Ord. 85-2, passed 7-2-85; Am. Ord.
97-7, passed 7-14-97)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14  ERECTION OF SIGNS TO DESIGNATE RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING AND STOPPING.
   (A)   “No Parking” signs shall be erected on such streets or portions
thereof as determined by order of the City Commission and no person shall park
a vehicle in any area indicated as “No Parking” by such sign at any time of the
day specified by the sign, except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. If no
time is specified on the sign, it shall mean at any time.  Parking  permits
shall be issued by the  Commissioner of Safety upon advance good faith
application pursuant to standards set by order of the City Commission.
   (B)   “No Stopping” signs shall be erected on such streets or portions
thereof and for such times as determined by order of the City Commission; and
no person shall stop any vehicle, except as required by traffic conditions, in
any area indicated as “No Stopping” by the sign except Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays. If no time is specified on the sign, it shall mean at any
time.
('81 Code, § 540.1, §§ 1, 2)  (Am. Ord. 82-3, passed 8-2-82; Am. Ord. 85-2,
passed 7-2-85)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15  RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING TO TAKE ON OR LET OUT PASSENGERS.
   No vehicle shall take on or let out passengers except on the right-hand side
of the vehicle which shall be within two feet of the right-hand curb or edge of
the street.
('81 Code, § 540.1, § 5)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16  POSTING OF SIGNS TO DESIGNATE “LOADING ZONE”; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   “Loading Zone” signs shall be erected at such places along public streets in
front of business establishments and for such time as determined by order of
the City Commission; and no person shall use such area for any other purposes
during the time indicated on the sign.  If no time is specified on the sign, it
shall mean between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
('81 Code, § 540.1, § 6)  Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department.  Should a vehicle be moved without the
consent and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued
immediately for the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21  REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle.  This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on
the vehicle.  When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow.  This division (B)
shall not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22  SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has substantially complied with the requirements of §
72.21, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set
forth in division (B) of this section, for the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on
the vehicle, as long as it remains in his possession. 
      (2)   Prior to payment of fees and release of a vehicle, a towing or
storage company shall not refuse the right of physical inspection of the towed
vehicle by the owner or an insurance company representative.  Release of the
vehicle shall occur to the owner or insurance company representative upon
payment and consent of the release from the owner or the owner’s authorized
representative.
Each additional service shall be set forth individually as a single line item
in the bill with an explanation and the exact charge for the service.
      (3)   If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on a
motor vehicle and its contents have not been paid, the motor vehicle and its
contents, except as set forth in division (B) of this section, may be sold to
pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten days
prior to the time and place of the sale.  If the proceeds of the sale of any
vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges
for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle.  A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens.
      (4)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first 15 days of impoundment.  The letter shall include the make,
model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and last
known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle.  If the above-
referenced certified letter is not sent within the 15 days by the towing and
storage company, then only 15 days of storage may be charged.  The lien holder
has the right to take possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of
lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage
charges on the motor vehicle.  Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer
of a vehicle subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner’s
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to, calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person’s
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by
the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall
be transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as
provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child-restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided for in division (B)(5) of this section, any
contents exempted under division (B) of this section that are not claimed by
the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may
be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
(KRS 376.275(3) - (6))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35  ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, the Commission
or city official is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become
effective at a time specified by it.  After the effective time of such
prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route.  However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City
Commission or any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00
p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall.  The prohibition of parking announced by
the City Commission or any authorized city official under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until the Commission or city official announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36  TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement.  If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official.  On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $50 nor more than $100.  (KRS 189.990(1))
('81 Code, § 540.1, § 8) (Am. Ord. 82-3, passed 8-2-82; Am. Ord. 94-6, passed
5-30-94)
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01  OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Bicycles shall be operated on the streets as near to the right-hand
curb or edge as practicable and the operator of a motor vehicle shall not
overtake and pass a bicycle unless it can be done with reasonable safety,
maintaining a space of not less than five feet between the bicycle and motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (C)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey all traffic signs, signals
and laws applicable to motor vehicles.
('81 Code, § 520.2, §§ 1 - 3)
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (E)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02  OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03  SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided shall be guilty of a violation, and shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
('81 Code, § 520.2, § 4)
CHAPTER 74:  TRUCKS
Section
   
74.01   Vehicle weight limit
   
74.02   Covering required to prevent escape of vehicle's contents
   
74.03   Compliance of trucks required
   
74.04   Restrictions on loading and unloading; leaving vehicle running in
stationary position
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01  VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMIT.
   No vehicle shall be operated on the streets of this city if the weight of
the vehicle and any load exceeds the maximum weight permitted on a city street
by KRS Chapter 189.
('81 Code, § 520.3, § 1)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02  COVERING REQUIRED TO PREVENT ESCAPE OF VEHICLE'S CONTENTS.
   No vehicle shall be operated upon any street or public way of the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or equipped with covering material to
prevent the contents from escaping.
('81 Code, § 520.3, § 2)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03  COMPLIANCE OF TRUCKS REQUIRED.
   The owner and the operator of any truck have the same responsibility for
compliance with §§
74.01 and
74.02 of this chapter.
('81 Code, § 520.3, § 3)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04  RESTRICTIONS ON LOADING AND UNLOADING; LEAVING VEHICLE RUNNING IN
STATIONARY POSITION.
   All trucks and other vehicles making deliveries or unloading  or loading
merchandise within the city shall do so between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m.  All sanitation trucks shall pick up garbage from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
on Monday through Friday and from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays.  No
truck shall be left running within the city in a stationary position for longer
than five minutes between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.  All sweepers or cleaning
trucks may clean only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Monday
through Friday, and 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 7-5-88; Am. Ord. 97-8, passed 4-13-98)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall be classified as a violation under
Kentucky Revised Statutes with a maximum fine of $500 per violation. Each
separate violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in §
74.01 shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.990(2)(a).
('81 Code, § 520.3, § 4) (Am. Ord. 97-8, passed 4-13- 98)
CHAPTER 75:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Designation of streets; speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  DESIGNATION OF STREETS; SPEED LIMITS.
   The following streets are hereby designated as certain types of streets and
the maximum speed limit is established for the operation of a motor vehicle on
said streets.
 
Street              Designation  Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Bunsen Parkway      Thoroughfare 35 m.p.h.   91-11    11-4-91
Hurstbourne Parkway Arterial     45 m.p.h.   91-11    11-4-91
Taylorsville Road   Arterial     45 m.p.h.   91-11    11-4-91
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see §
71.05
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
    Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Animals in the city limits; prohibitions
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Dogs or cats running at large
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
   
90.18   Removal of dangerous dogs; protective fence restricted
   
90.19   Impoundment
   
90.20   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.21   Kennels prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims
by the owner to the animal.  (KRS 257.100 (4))
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This paragraph shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
   Torture of a dog or cat, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.04  DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer or animal control officer may destroy or kill or
cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and
not properly cared for, or appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past
recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed
veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and any custodian to whom
the animal may be given of any further liability for disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07  ANIMALS IN THE CITY LIMITS; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep within the city limits any farm animals,
including, but not limited to, swine, sheep, goats, horses, ponies, chickens,
poultry or cattle.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-8-14)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise.  ('81 Code, § 840.1, § 1 (a))
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER.  Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog or cat.  ('81 Code, § 840.1, § 1 (b))
§ 90.16  DOGS OR CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any dog or cat shall permit such dog or cat to run at
large.
('81 Code, § 840.1, § 2)
§ 90.17  NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences.  Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS DOGS; PROTECTIVE FENCE RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Any dog found to be in violation of the Jefferson County Dangerous Dog
Ordinance and which dog is owned by an individual or individuals residing in
the city, or if such dog is located within the city, it shall be removed from
the city permanently and immediately.
   (B)   No protective fence shall be allowed in violation of the ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 87-7, passed 12-7-87)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.20  RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.21  KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Kennels are prohibited within the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section KENNEL shall mean more than five dogs
or five cats or more than a combination of five dogs and/or cats being owned or
possessed by the same owner or owners at the same location.
(Ord. 91-12, passed 11-4-91)
Cross-reference:
   Kennels designated as prohibited use, see § 150.27
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.  Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under §
90.03(A) arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one  or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to
fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (3)   If a person's ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (B)(2) of this section, the court may order the
sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.  (KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.  (KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required; encroachment permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers and warning lights around excavations
   
91.05   [Reserved]
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED; ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city
official, to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of
the city unless an opening permit has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city
official, to make any vehicular connection to any of the city’s rights-of-way,
unless and until an encroachment permit has been obtained from the City
Commission prior to the commencement of work on the connection.
(Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-8-10)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening/encroachment shall be confined to a
single project and shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized
city official.
   (B)   Application for either an opening or encroachment permit shall be made
on a form prescribed by the City Commission, which at a minimum shall require
giving the exact location of the proposed opening or encroachment, a plan
showing in detail the work to be done, type of materials to be used, the kind
of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts required by the
city for a full understanding of the proposal, including (if deemed necessary
by the City Commission) a traffic study and analysis.  The permit shall be
issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and
satisfactory refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces
disturbed.
   (C)   An encroachment permit shall not be issued until the City Commission
makes a written determination that the connection will not adversely impact the
health and safety of the city, which analysis includes, but is not limited to,
consideration:
      (1)   The extent to which the connection will allow cut-through traffic
to flow through city rights-of-way.
      (2)   Whether the parcel benefitted by the connection has other,
reasonable vehicular access through another access point.
      (3)   If the impact on the community by making the connection outweighs
the applicant’s need for the use.
      (4)   Whether the applicant will be adversely affected by denial of the
encroachment permit.
      (5)   Whether the abutting property owners will be adversely affected by
the approval of the encroachment permit.
      (6)   The cost (if any) to the city in allowing the encroachment.
      (7)   Whether or not the encroachment is for a normal connection of a
residence.
      (8)   Whether or not the granting of the encroachment would set
precedence for other applications, from property similarly situated.
      (9)   Whether the applicant has fully studied (to the satisfaction of the
City Commission) the traffic implication of the encroachment on the surrounding
city intersections and roadways, as part of its encroachment application.
(Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-8-10)
§ 91.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee to satisfactorily fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to herein
shall be forfeited.  If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the city shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from the permittee.
(Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-8-10)
§ 91.04  BARRIERS AND WARNING LIGHTS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury and have adequate
warning lights.
(Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-8-10)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  [RESERVED]
§ 91.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city.  He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval. 
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work.  The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city.  Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17  PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100 (2),(3))
§ 91.18  HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.19  SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project.  A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge
program, provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at
the hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 91.20  EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6),(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.  No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Junked Motor Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Storage of junked motor vehicles and accessories prohibited;
declaration of nuisance
   
92.17   Prohibited movement of junked motor vehicles
   
92.18   Investigation of premises by Sanitation Department
   
92.19   Notice of removal; abatement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisance, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS.  Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   NUISANCE.  Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL.  Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact  or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.  In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
§ 92.02  COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon.  The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Plastic flags or banners other than the flag of the United States of
America or the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   Loud speakers outside of any building.
   (C)   Sales of merchandise for commercial purposes from tents or other
portable buildings.
   (D)   The hoisting of or lifting of vehicles in an outside area more than
ten feet off the ground.
   (E)   The placing of hot air balloons of any kind in a stationary position
for promotional or commercial uses where the top of the balloon is more than
ten feet off the ground.
   (F)   The depositing of trash of any kind upon the streets and other
property within the city.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 5-6-91)
   (G)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street.  Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (H)   Accumulation of rubbish.  An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (I)   Storage of explosives.  The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (J)   Deleterious, unheathful growths.  Deleterious, unhealthful growths
shall be defined as weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers
or other ornamental plants, allowed to exceed 12 inches in height. The
Commissioner of the Sanitation Department shall be sole judge as to the
ornamental or deleterious, unhealthful nature of said plants.
   (K)   Open wells.  The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (L)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.  The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (M)   Keeping of animals.  The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (N)   Scrap metal.  The storage of scrap metal within the city limits except
on premises authorized by the city for such purposes.
   (O)   (1)   Unkept properties. Shall include:
         (a)   Peeling or deteriorated surfaces. No owner of any lot, place or
area within the city or agent or lessee of such owner, shall permit on such
lot, place or area any structure or site improvement once painted, the peeling
or deterioration of said painted surface to exceed 20% of that surface's
visible area unless the paint is removed entirely and the material requries no
surfacing to prevent deteriortion. ('81 Code, § 1010.2.1) (Ord. -1992, passed -
-92)
         (b)   Broken windows or missing exterior finish carpentry. No owner of
any lot, place or area within the city or agent or lessee of such owner, shall
permit on such lot, place or area any structure or site improvement the
existence of broken windows or missing elements of once present exterior finish
carpenstry. ('81 Code, § 1010.2.2) (Ord. -1992, passed - -92)
         (c)   Uncompleted repairs. No owner of any lot, place or area within
the city, or agent or lessee of such owner, shall permit on such lot, place or
area any repair work on any structure, site improvement, equipment, appliance
or furniture to go uncompleted without progress toward completion for 14 days
if said work is visible from any surrounding lot, place or area within the
city. ('81 Code, § 1010.2.3) (Ord. -1992, passed - -92)
      (2)   Notice to repair.  The Commissioner of the Sanitation Department of
the city is hereby authorized and empowered to notify, in writing, the owner of
any such lot, place or area within the city or the agent of such owner, to
paint peeling or deteriorated surfaces exceeding 20% of once painted visible
surfaces, repair broken windows, perform exterior finish carpentry, or remove
uncompleted repair work of any structure, site improvement, equipment,
appliance or furniture. ('81 Code, § 1010.2.4) (Ord. -1992, passed - -92)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the Commissioner of the
Sanitation Department shall give written notice to remedy the nuisance
situation and to advise the owner that the city may take appropriate action to
correct the nuisance if the owner does not do so.  Upon the failure of the
owner of the property to comply within five days after receipt of the written
notice provided for in this section or within ten days after the date of such
notice in the event that the notice is returned to the post office because of
its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly
addressed to the last known address of the owner or agent, the Commissioner of
the Sanitation Department is authorized to send employees upon the property to
remedy the situation.
   (C)   Once any work necessary to remedy the situation has been done by the
city, and the city has paid for the work or calculated the cost of the work,
the owner or his agent shall be notified of the amount paid and/or the cost of
the work in addition to a $200 penalty for failure to timely comply with this
section and he shall further be notified that payment is expected by the city
within 30 days after the notice.  In the event that the city is not paid within
30 days after the notice, the Commissioner of the Sanitation Department may
commence appropriate proceedings  on behalf of the city pursuant to this
section, including but not limited to a civil action to recover the cost of the
work hereinabove described or to file a lien for the amount due plus interest
at the local rate upon the benefitted property.
(Ord. 86-6, passed 5-6-86; Am. Ord. 95-6, passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. 97-6, passed
7-14-97)
§ 92.05  NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees,  guests,  or other persons for 
whose  conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of
reasonable care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06  SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City  Commission  that
a nuisance exists and  the City Commission deems that there is an immediate
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Commission may by
majority vote suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the
premises where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Commission may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  Any automobile or machine or parts thereof which is left
upon public or private property within Forest Hills under circumstances
indicating a desertion, relinquishment, non-use or divestment so as to indicate
a discarded vehicle.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle or parts thereof which does not have
lawfully affixed thereto a current license plate and/or which, in the judgement
of a reasonable prudent man observing community standards is in one or more the
following condition: rusted, wrecked, partially dismantled or otherwise non-
functional and which cannot safely or legally be operated. JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE
may be deemed to include major parts thereof, including but not limited to
bodies, engines, transmissions or rear ends.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled land vehicle which can be used for towing
or transporting people or materials, including but not limited to automobiles,
trucks, buses, motorhomes, motorized campers, motorcycles, motor scooters,
tractors, snowmobiles, dune buggies and other off the road vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESSORIES.  Any part or parts of any motor vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any real property not owned by the federal government,
state, county, city school board or other public subdivisions.
   REMOVAL.  The physical relocation of a motor vehicle to an authorized
location.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 4-4-83)
§ 92.16  STORAGE OF JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES AND ACCESSORIES PROHIBITED;
DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Prohibition.  It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store,
leave or permit parking or storing of any junked or abandoned vehicle of any
kind, or part thereof, for a period of time in excess of seven days, upon any
private residential property.
   (B)   Exception.  This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building or a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise, or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by City of Forest Hills.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  PROHIBITED MOVEMENT OF JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after notification  to  remove  any
junked  motor  vehicle  or motor vehicle accessories from any private property
has been given, to move the same to any other private property upon which such
storage is not permitted or onto any public highway or other public property
for purposes of storage.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES BY SANITATION DEPARTMENT.
   An official of the Sanitation Department on routine inspection or upon
receipt of a complaint may investigate  a suspected junked motor vehicle or
motor
vehicle accessories and record the make, model, style and identification
numbers and its situation.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 4-4-83)
§ 92.19  NOTICE OF REMOVAL; ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the official of the Sanitation Department finds or is notified that
any junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories have been stored or
permitted to remain on any private property within the city, the official of
the Sanitation Department shall send by certified mail a notice to the owner of
record of such motor vehicle or accessories, if such owner can be ascertained
by the exercise of reasonable diligence, and also to the owner of the private
property, as shown on the tax assessment records of the city, on which the same
is located to remove the junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories
within ten days.  Such notice shall also contain the following additional
information:
   (A)   Nature of complaint;
   (B)   Description and location of the motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle
accessories;
   (C)   Statement that the motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories will be
removed from the premises no later than ten days from date of notification;
   (D)   Statement that removal from the location specified in the notification
to another location upon which such storage is not permitted is prohibited and
shall subject the person to additional penalties;
   (E)   Statement that if removal is made within the time limits specified;
notification shall be given in writing to the official of the Sanitation
Department; and
   (F)   Statement of the penalties provided for noncompliance with such
notice.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 4-4-83)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 93:  FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   The term FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of “consumer” or
“display” fireworks as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation's
(DOT) hazardous materials regulations.  FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1:  Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3:  Propelling or expelling charges consisting of
a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS are fireworks suitable for use by the public,
designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and that comply
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission.  The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter.  Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition.  CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507, are classified
as Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler.  These devices consist
of a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic
composition.  Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is
produced.  Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per
item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed
five grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.  Wire sparklers which contain
no magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are
not included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain.  Cylindrical tube not more than 75 grams
of pyrotechnic  composition.  Upon ignition, a  shower  of colored sparks, and
sometimes a whistling effect, is produced.  This device may be provided with a
spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or plastic base
for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard handle, if
intended to be hand-held (handle fountain).  When more than one tube is mounted
on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams or 500
grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of
at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain.  Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
50 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain.  When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch.  Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, colored fire is produced.  May be
spike, base, or hand-held.  When more than one cone is mounted on a common
base, the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams
if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at
least one-half inch.
         (e)   Wheel.  A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail
or string.  A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner.  Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited.  A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler.  Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. This device does not have a fuse for
ignition.  The paper at one end of the tube is ignited to make the device
function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device.  Small plastic or paper item containing nor
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets.  Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition.  A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket.  A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner.  A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air.  A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles.  Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
20 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets
of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are
individually expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell.  Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to
a wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition).  Upon ignition, stars, components producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air.  The term mine refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term shell refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air.  A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse.  The term cake refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes.  Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams.  The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.  The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube.  A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells.  Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches.  In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or busting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell.  The total chemical composition of all
the shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams.  The
user lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the
fuse extending out of the top of the tube.  After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing.  All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube.  Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes.  Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report.  Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser.  Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition.  A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced. 
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm.  Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning.  The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns.  These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device.  Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler.  Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition.  These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item.  Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker.  Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user.  These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper.  Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive.  A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap.  Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design.  The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper.  Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand.  When dropped, the
device explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match.  Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load.  Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition.  Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm.  Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited.  A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report.  A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   The term DISPLAY FIREWORKS shall mean pyrotechnic devices or large
fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation.  This term includes, but is not
limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams) of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks.  Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507, and are
classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in (D) are not legal for retail sale but are legal
under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes specified in
this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as provided in
this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02  SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The City Commission or other authorized city official may grant
permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. 
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent operator to be
approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of
such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. 
The competent display operator
shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) license
and have participated as an assistant, in firing at least five public
displays.  A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee possessor.  A
permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing.  This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local fire chief.  All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code For Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display.  After this privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only.  No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator.  All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division.  The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives, if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, form, co-partnership, nonprofit or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715 and display
its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(6) - (8))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000.  However, the City Commission or other
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06  DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter.  After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler.  All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.  The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks.  The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire
Marshal’s intent.  The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative
hearing in accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of
fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks in not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks.  The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks.  If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks.  If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20  BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official.  The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind.  Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.  (KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94:  LITTERING
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Littering prohibited
   
94.03   Prevention of scattering
   
94.04   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
   
94.05   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter
   
94.06   Owner to maintain private premises
   
94.07   Littering from vehicles
   
94.08   Littering from aircraft
   
94.09   Litter in parks
   
94.10   Posting notices prohibited
   
94.11   Litter on construction sites
   
94.12   Maintenance of loading and unloading docks
   
94.13   Litter in parking lots
   
94.14   Preparation of guidelines by Building Official
   
94.15   Clearing litter from open private property by city; enforcement by
Building Official
Handbills
   
94.25   Distribution in public places; private premises
   
94.26   Placing handbills on vehicles
   
94.27   Responsibility for clean-up of litter related to handbill distribution
   
94.28   Exemption for newspapers and political literature
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.  A con- tainer of watertight construction
with a tight fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within.  Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe convenient
handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter
generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES.  Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL.  Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by United States mail, including but not
limited to those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER.  Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING and UNLOADING DOCK.  Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purposes of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES.  All property including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land, building or structure designed or used for residential, commercial
business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together with any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox and
other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountain and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES.  Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the city.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)
§ 94.02  LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the city except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such manner as to prevent litter from being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any pubic place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07  LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any public place or private premises.  Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises.  Nor shall
any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or
tires of which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises,
mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08  LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city
any litter.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09  LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the city except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises.  Where receptacles are not provided,
all such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for
its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10  POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law.  No person except the owner or tenant
shall post any such notice on private property, without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11  LITTER ON CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12  MAINTENANCE OF LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall at all
times maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13  LITTER IN PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required.  Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section.  Such premises shall include but
not be limited to such places as shopping centers, outdoor theatres, drive- in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots,
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles.  All premises having parking lots shall provide
in any easily assessable location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications.  Litter receptacles shall have tight fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage.  A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness.  Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles.  It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit upon any such parking lot any litter.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14  PREPARATION OF GUIDELINES BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and empowered to prepare written
guidelines on how to comply with this chapter.  In doing so, applicable
federal, state and local standards regarding fire prevention, pollution
control, public safety, nuisance, and health shall be given due consideration.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)
§ 94.15  CLEARING LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY; ENFORCEMENT BY
BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected shall
be in accordance with the state statutes.  The Building Official shall be
responsible for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
HANDBILLS
§ 94.25  DISTRIBUTION IN PUBLIC PLACES; PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   Public places.  No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or
upon any public place provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises.  No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute
any handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises.  Provided,
however, that in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26  PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle unless the
occupant of a vehicle is willing to accept it.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27  RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEAN-UP OF LITTER RELATED TO HANDBILL
DISTRIBUTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing handbills to
maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter caused by or
related to said handbill distribution.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28  EXEMPTION FOR NEWSPAPERS AND POLITICAL LITERATURE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the distribution upon
private premises only of newspapers or political literature; except that
newspapers and political literature shall be placed in such a manner as to
prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place
or other private premises.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 4-4-83)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 95:  NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Loud music; other noise prohibited
   
95.02   Loud speakers; music broadcast outside prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  LOUD MUSIC; OTHER NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No loud music or other noise shall be permitted within the city. 
   (B)   LOUD MUSIC or OTHER NOISE WHICH IS PROHIBITED WITHIN THE CITY shall be
defined as that music or noise which is 90 decibels or more at the point of
origin.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 7-5-88)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  LOUD SPEAKERS; MUSIC BROADCAST OUTSIDE PROHIBITED.
   No loud speakers or broadcast music shall be permitted outside of vehicles
or buildings.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 7-5-88)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   COMMUNITY ANTENNAE CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM
      
115.   TRANSMISSION TOWERS
      
116.   HOME BUSINESSES
      
117.   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISES
      
118.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk/Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk/Treasurer and any other appropriate city official.  If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued.  However, at any time after December 14 licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location  shall keep posted
in a prominent place  upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. 
Other licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and
whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Commission at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Commission may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee.  This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Commission from
the denial, revocation, or suspension.  Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk/Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter.  The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the City Commission of the time and place of the
hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof.  A majority of the City
Commission members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal.  The appellant
may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.  If, after hearing, a majority
of the members of the City Commission present at the meeting declare in favor
of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case
may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Selling merchandise from motorized vehicles prohibited
   
111.10   Unsolicited door-to-door sales prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sales from portable buildings declared a nuisance, see §
92.03 (K)
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's
business during the time that it is proposed to be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission.  The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09  SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM
MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, business entity, corporation, partnership or other
individual shall operate a motorized vehicle within the city for the purpose of
selling any product, service, merchandise, or material from such vehicle while
it is located in the streets of the city, since such activity is hereby deemed
to constitute a health and safety hazard.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Safety shall give notice of this section to any
and all vendors whom he may find in violation hereof.
('81 Code, § 440.1, §§ 1, 2)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10  UNSOLICITED DOOR-TO-DOOR SALES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Commission hereby makes a finding that unsolicited door-to-
door sales and distribution of materials can be dangerous and is not in the
best interest of the city.
   (B)   Unsolicited door-to-door sales and distribution of material are
prohibited in the city.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to the violation described herein if the seller
or distributor can show that the person or persons to whom he is selling or
distributing solicited or invited the seller or distributor to come within the
city to sell or distribute.
(Ord. 91-10, passed 11-4-91)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is
set forth shall be fined not more than $500.  Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-10, passed 11-4-91)
CHAPTER 112:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER.  Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02  BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1000.  This
bond shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03  REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the
pawnbroker from the general public.  The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver's license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in division (A)(2)(a) or (b) is
not available, a Social Security number may be accepted; 
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security.  When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an
investigation, a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law
enforcement if the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker.  For
purposes of this division, FULL DESCRIPTION includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as
stolen.  (KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each
report.  The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable.  The
Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.  (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH
ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register.  He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan.  However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing
the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by
§
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans.  Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law.  No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest. 
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.  However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
CHAPTER 113:  INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01  IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 2000-05, passed 11-13-00)
§ 113.02  AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 2000-05, passed 11-13-00)
§ 113.03  AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 2000-05, passed 11-13-00)
§ 113.04  DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter.  License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 91-7, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 2000-05, passed 11-13-00)
§ 113.05  WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 2000-05, passed 11-13-00)
CHAPTER 114:  COMMUNITY ANTENNAE CABLE
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Franchise term
   
114.03   Significance of franchise
   
114.04   Partial listing of rights reserved to the city
   
114.05   Application for a franchise
   
114.06   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
114.07   Indemnity
   
114.08   Bonds and insurance
   
114.09   Franchise consideration
   
114.10   Franchise territory
   
114.11   Time schedule after franchise is granted
   
114.12   Installation and extension of service
   
114.13   Service to customers
   
114.14   System design
   
114.15   Privacy
   
114.16   Interconnection
   
114.17   Emergencies
   
114.18   Rates
   
114.19   Police powers
   
114.20   Transfer and assignments
   
114.21   Abandonment
   
114.22   Conditions of street occupancy
   
114.23   Arrangements by franchisee with others
   
114.24   Review, renewal, termination and cancellation
   
114.25   Revocation of franchise
   
114.26   Foreclosure; receivership
   
114.27   Books and records of the franchise
   
114.28   New developments
   
114.29   Time of essence
   
114.30   Franchisee not to contest validity
   
114.31   Installation of equipment
   
114.32   Violations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL GROSS RECEIPTS.  Any and all compensation, revenue, and other
consideration, derived directly or indirectly, in any form whatever, by a
franchisee, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, from, or in connection with,
the operation of a cable communications system in the city.
   APPLICANT.  The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind which
applies for a franchise to be granted under this chapter.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.  Any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly, and amplifies or otherwise modifies signals
which transmit nonbroadcast services, and programming broadcast or furnished by
one or more television or radio stations or similar facility and distributes
such signals by wire or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for
such service.  Such definition shall not include any similar facility that
serves only the residents of one or more apartment or condominium dwelling
under common ownership, control or management, or otherwise, and commercial
establishments located on the premises of such an apartment house or
condominium dwelling.
   CATV.  A community antennae cable communica-tions system, composed of,
without limitation, antennae, cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, laser
beams, or any other conductors, converters, equipment or facilities, designed,
constructed, or wired for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, and
distributing coaxial cable audio and/or visual signals to and from persons,
subscribers, and locations in the city.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.  That approval required by the FCC in order for a
franchise to begin operation with the city.
   CONVERTER.  An interface device which may be furnished to subscribers in
order that nonstandard television channels carried on the cable communications
system may be received on a conventional home television receiver, or to
prevent interference from strong broadcast signals.
   EQUITABLE INTEREST.  All assignments of any right or privilege under the
prospective franchise, and shall also include any benefit, payment, or
emolument resulting from the grant of a franchise under this chapter. ('81
Code, § 450.1, § 5(g)1.)
   FAIR MARKET VALUE.  The price that a willing buyer under no compulsion to
buy would pay to a willing seller under no compulsion to sell.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission as that agency is presently
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, or any successor
agency.
   FRANCHISE.  The nonexclusive rights granted in this chapter to construct and
operate a cable communications system along the streets, alleys, and public
ways in the city.
   FRANCHISEE.  The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind, and the
lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of same, granted a franchise by the
City Commission under this chapter.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, joint
venture, legal entity or organization of any kind.
   SERVICE.  All communications, maintenance, repair, and installation services
provided by the franchisee, including the delivery of broadcast signals and
programming covered by the regular monthly charge paid by all subscribers,
including such standard type of service that is normally furnished by CATV
franchisees for a regular monthly charge and such additional communications
services as are furnished as a part of the cable communications system in the
way of two-way, return-path services.
   STREET.  The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, or other public right-of-way including
public utility easements or right-of-way and any temporary or permanent
fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the city
which shall entitle the city and the franchisee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing, operating, repairing, and maintaining the franchisee's
cable communications system.  STREET shall also mean any easement now or
hereafter held by the city for the purpose of public travel and shall include
other easements or rights-of- way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
city, which shall within their proper use and meaning entitle the city and the
franchisee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or transmitting
cable communications transmissions over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, compliances, attachments, and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable
communications system.
   SUBSCRIBER.  Any person who contracts the purchase, orally or in writing, of
any service as may be provided by a franchisee's cable communications system.
   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.  That point at which sufficient distribution
facilities have been installed by the franchisee so as to provide service to at
least 90% of the dwelling units in the franchise territory as described in §
114.10 of this chapter.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 1)
§ 114.02  FRANCHISE TERM.
   The City Commission creates the right, privilege, and franchise to
construct, operate, and maintain a community antennae television system in the
streets of the city, subject to the conditions and restrictions as hereinafter
provided; and that right, privilege, and franchise shall be offered to
potential applicants and granted by the City Commission to the applicant
presenting the best legal, character, financial, technical, and other
qualifications, and whose construction plans and arrangements can be shown to
be both feasible and adequate to meet the minimum requirements established. 
The franchise shall run for a period of 15 years commencing on the date the
franchise is awarded at the end of which time it may be renewed subject to the
approval of the City Commission and the provisions of the constitution and the
statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky governing term and sale of franchises
then in force and effect.  Any such franchise shall designate and be
conditioned upon the acceptance by a franchisee of all terms of this chapter
and any amendments properly made thereto.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 2)
§ 114.03  SIGNIFICANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereafter by the city shall not be exclusive and
the city reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any other persons
or entities at any time.
   (B)   No privilege or exemption shall be inferred from the granting of any
franchise unless it is specifically prescribed.
   (C)   Any franchise granted in accordance with this chapter shall give to
the franchisee the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and
maintain in, upon, along, above, over and under the streets, alleys, and public
places of the incorporated areas of the city such towers, antennae, cable,
electronic equipment, and other network appurtenances necessary for the
operation of a cable communications system in the city; provided, however, that
the exercise of such right and privilege shall not interfere with the use of
such streets, alleys, and public places by the city and such others as are
permitted by the city to use same, and the City Commission may demand the
removal of the foregoing as have been constructed by or under contract with a
franchisee at such time as the City Commission determines that same are
interfering with the use of said streets, alleys, or public places.
   (D)   Any franchise granted shall be a privilege to be held for the benefit
of the public.
   (E)   Prior approval of the City Commission shall be required and obtained
where ownership or control of more than 10% of the right of control of any
franchise is acquired, disposed of, or transferred by a person or group of
persons acting in concert.  Approval of the City Commission to such a transfer
of interest shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Transfer from a subsidiary to
a parent corporation, or vice versa, shall not be considered as a change of
control.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the mortgage or
the pledge of the network or any part thereof or a leasing by a franchisee from
another person of that network or part thereof for financing purposes or
otherwise.  However, any such mortgage, pledge, or lease shall be subject to
the rights of the City Commission under this chapter, a franchise granted in
accordance with this chapter, and all other applicable laws.
   (G)   Any franchise granted shall not relieve the franchisee of its
obligation to obtain necessary pole or conduit use agreements as are necessary.
   (H)   The award of any franchise shall not impart to the franchisee any
right of ownership of streets or city-owned property.
   (I)   Any franchise granted shall be binding upon the franchisee, its
successors, lessees, or assignees.
   (J)   A franchisee, at its expense, shall comply with all applicable laws,
orders, ordinances, and regulations of federal, state, city and county
authorities including those established to protect historic districts and/or
designated landmark sites.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 3)
§ 114.04  PARTIAL LISTING OF RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves such rights and powers which under applicable
federal or state law or regulations, the city must reserve and maintain. 
Franchisee agrees to comply with any action or requirements of the city in the
exercise of such rights and powers which either have been or shall subsequent
to the grant of this franchise be enacted or established.
   (B)   The city may designate and transfer its obligations and duties under
the franchise to any elected official, officer, employee, department, agent,
board or commission of the city and a franchisee shall recognize the authority
of any such transferee.
   (C)   The city may inspect all construction or installation work performed
pursuant to the franchise grant under this chapter.
   (D)   Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provisions shall
constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power
of the city.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 4)
§ 114.05  APPLICATION FOR A FRANCHISE.
   Applications for an original franchise shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, and shall contain the following written information and provisions:
   (A)   Bid bond.  Applications shall be submitted with the bid bond as
required by the requirements of §
114.08 of this chapter, and shall be accompanied by  a nonrefundable filing fee
of $250 payable to the City of Forest Hills.
   (B)   Name and address of applicant.  The name and business address of the
applicant, date of application, and signature of applicant or appropriate
corporate officer.
   (C)   Description of proposed operation.  A general description of the
applicant's proposed operation, including, but not limited to: 
      (1)   Business hours;
      (2)   Operating staff;
      (3)   Maintenance procedures;
      (4)   Management and marketing staff complement and procedures;
      (5)   Rules of operation for public access;
      (6)   A statement of services to be provided; and
      (7)   A description of the system design as required by §
114.14 (B).
   (D)   Special services.  A statement setting forth a description of any
automated services proposed as well as a description of the production
facilities to be made available by the franchisee for public, municipal, and
educational access channels.
   (E)   Programming assistance.  A statement explaining any assistance, in
terms of personnel, equipment, or capacity, to be designated for the
programming or programming assistance for the public, educational, and
governmental access channels.
   (F)   Rates.  A statement of the applicant's proposed rates in conformity
with this chapter.
   (G)   Applicant organization.
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, partnership, or unincorporated
association, it shall state the names and addresses of all persons (including
corporations) having a proprietary or equitable interest in and to the
applicant's business operation, and in and to the prospective franchise if
awarded.
      (2)   If the applicant is a nonpublic corpora- tion, the application
shall state, additionally, the names and addresses of the officers, directors,
and shareholders of the corporation, together with the number of shares held by
each shareholder.
      (3)   If the applicant is a publicly held corporation, as defined by the
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the statement
shall contain the states in which incorporated and/or qualified to do business,
the names and addresses of the officers and directors of the corporation, the
names and addresses and number of shares owned of all stockholders both nominal
and beneficial, owning 3% or more of the outstanding stock of the applicant.
      (4)   A full disclosure of the ownership of the facilities to be used in
rendering the service.
   (H)   Intra-company relationships.  A statement describing all intra-company
relationships of the applicant, including parent, subsidiary, or affiliated
companies.
   (I)   Agreements and understandings.  A statement setting forth all
agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, existing between the
applicant and any other person, firm, group, or corporation with respect to any
franchise awarded and the conduct of the operation existing at the time the
application is made.
   (J)   Financial statements.  Audited financial statements for the
applicant's two latest fiscal years unless applicant has not been in existence
for at least two years, in which case applicant shall furnish audited financial
statements for such lesser period of time covering the period that the
applicant has been in existence.  If the applicant is a partnership, audited
financial statements shall include copies of the federal partnership income tax
return for its latest two fiscal years or such lesser period of time that the
partnership has been in existence.
   (K)   Financial support.  Suitable written evidence from a recognized
financing institution addresses both to the applicant and to the City
Commission advising that the applicant's planned operation has been analyzed by
the institution and that the financing institution is prepared to make the
required funds available to applicant if it is awarded a franchise.  If the
planned operation is to be internally financed, a corporate board resolution or
statement from a qualified officer of the applicant shall be supplied
authorizing the obtainment and expenditure of such funds as are required to
construct, install, and operate the cable communications system contemplated in
this chapter.
   (L)   Technical description.  A technical description of the type of network
proposed by the applicant, including, but not limited to, network
configuration, such as a hub, network capacity, two- way operation capability
and service to be provided, and a description of the studio or studios, studio
equipment, planned hours of operation and hours of availability, if any, that
same will be made available to governmental, public, and educational
institutions or agencies.
   (M)   Engineering statement.  A statement from the applicant's senior
technical staff member, or consultant, advising that he has reviewed this
chapter and that the applicant's planned network and operations thereof will
meet all the requirements set forth herein.
   (N)   Existing franchises.  A statement of existing franchises held by the
applicant indicating, with particularity, when the franchises were issued and
when the systems were constructed together with the name, address, and phone
number of a responsible governmental official knowledgeable of the applicant in
each such franchise area.
   (O)   Convictions.  A statement as to whether the applicant or any of its
officers or directors or holders of 3% or more of its voting stock or bonded
indebtedness has in the past ten years been convicted of any crime which in any
way is related to the operation and performance of a cable communications
system or in any way relates to the applicant's ability or competency to
perform its obligations under this chapter.
   (P)   Operating experience.  A statement detailing the prior CATV experience
of the applicant including that of the applicant's officers, management, and
staff to be associated with the proposed operation.
   (Q)   Franchise renewal information.  If an application is for renewal of a
franchise, the proposal must include, in addition to the information required
in divisions (A) through (Q) above:
      (1)   A summary of the technical, financial, and programming history of
the network since the granting of the original franchise.
      (2)   A statement and timetable that outlines all proposed changes,
expansion, or improvements in the network as to services, programming or
technical specifications during the forthcoming 15- year period.
   (R)   Additional requirements.  Ten copies of the application shall be
filed.  Supplementary, additional, or other information that the applicant
deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time as an
application, but must be separately bound and submitted in the above number of
copies.  The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional information
as part of the application.
   (S)   Supplementation to applications.  The City Commission reserves the
right to require such supplementary, additional, or other information that it
deems reasonably necessary for its determinations.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 5)
§ 114.06  ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted, together with the rights, privileges, and
authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
effective date of an ordinance awarding a franchise, provided that on or before
the date the franchisee shall:
      (1)   File with the city an unconditional acceptance of the franchise
grant and enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by
the City Commission consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter
and such other terms and provisions as were negotiated by the franchisee and
the City Commission consistent with the application of the franchisee.
      (2)   File certificate of insurance as set forth in §
114.08 of this chapter.
      (3)   File such bond or bonds as required in §
114.08 of this chapter.
      (4)   Reimburse the city for the costs of publication of this chapter and
the ordinance awarding the franchise.
      (5)   Advise the City Commission in writing of the franchisee's location
and its address for mail and official notifications from the City Commission.
   (B)   In the event the franchisee fails to comply in full with division (A)
of this section, then it shall be conclusively considered that the franchisee
has abandoned its application and rights to such grant and award of the
franchise, and any such rights that the franchisee may have acquired under the
chapter shall immediately terminate, and the franchisee shall have no right,
privilege or authority whatsoever under this chapter.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the city for
or on account of any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any
provisions or requirements of this chapter and/or the ordinance awarding the
franchise or any amendments thereto or rules or regulations thereunder.
   (D)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
that it has relied upon its own investigation and understanding of the power
and authority of the City Commission to grant such a franchise.
   (E)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
that it has thoroughly examined and is familiar with the terms and conditions
of this chapter, the ordinance awarding the franchise, and such other contracts
and documents entered into by the franchisee relative to the franchise.
   (F)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
and agrees that the matters contained in the franchisee's application for
franchise or supplements thereto, shall be incorporated into the ordinance
awarding the franchise as though set out verbatim and shall be considered an
integral part of such chapter in all communications, correspondence, filings,
or applications with all appropriate regulatory agencies, including the FCC.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 6)
§ 114.07  INDEMNITY.
   The franchisee shall at its sole cost and expense fully indemnify, defend,
and save harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, and employees
against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability, and judgments for damage
arising out of the operation of the CATV franchise, except that the franchisee
shall not be required to indemnify the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
employees, for acts or claims arising from their own negligence or intentional
acts.  The damages or penalties to be indemnified shall include, but not be
limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringement and all other damages
arising out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not such acts or omissions complained of are
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the franchise.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 7)
§ 114.08  BONDS AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their application bonds solely for the protection of
the city with surety or sureties as follows:
      (1)   A bid bond in the amount of $25,000 which shall indemnify the city
up to the full amount of the bond for any damages or losses arising out of the
failure of the franchisee to execute an agreement in the form proposed under
this chapter.
      (2)   A construction bond in the amount of $25,000 to be effective from
the date of execution of the franchise agreement and the effective date of the
ordinance awarding the franchise, and thereafter until the cable communications
systems referred to therein is certified completed by an independent electrical
engineer to be employed by the city for such purpose.  The bond required under
this section shall indemnify the city in its own right and as trustee for
subscribers up to the full amount of the bond from any damages or losses
arising out of the failure of the franchisee to faithfully perform and
satisfactorily complete construction of the cable communication system in
accordance with this chapter and any agreement or ordinance in connection with,
including, but not limited to, the cost of removal of any construction.
      (3)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise shall file
with their application a bond with a corporate surety in the amount of $25,000
to be effective upon the execution of the franchise agreement and the effective
date of the ordinance awarding the franchise, and conditioned that in the event
that the franchise fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or any
agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, then there
shall be recovered jointly and severally from the principals and surety any and
all damages or costs suffered or incurred by the city or any subscriber as a
result thereof, including, but not limited to, costs and reasonable attorney's
fees of any action or proceeding, and including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification, costs of removal, or abandonment of any property
or other costs which may be in default, up to the full principal amount of such
bond; this condition shall be a continuing obligation during the entire term of
any agreement, ordinance or ordinances awarded the franchise in accordance
herewith and thereafter until the franchisee shall have satisfied in full any
and all obligations to the city which arise out of or pertain to same.
      (4)   None of the provisions of this section, nor any bond accepted by
the city pursuant thereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder,
shall be construed to excuse the faithful performance by or limit the liability
of the franchisee under this chapter or any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith or for damages either to the full amount of
the bond or otherwise.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the granting of the franchise and at all times
during the term of the franchise, the franchisee shall obtain and pay all
premiums for the following:
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy
indemnifying, defending, and saving harmless the city, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees, from any and all claims by any person
whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned
by the operations of a franchisee under the franchise granted, or alleged to
have been so caused or incurred with a minimum liability of $250,000 for bodily
injury or death of any one person and $500,000 for bodily injuries or death to
two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnify- ing, defending, and saving
harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees
from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage
occasioned by the operation of franchisee under the franchise granted, or
alleged to have been so lost or incurred with a minimum liability of $250,000
for property damage to any one person and $500,000 for property damage to two
or more persons in any one occurrence.
   (C)   Such insurance as provided for in this section shall be kept in full
force and effect by the franchisee during the existence of the franchise with
insurance companies qualified to do business in the Common-wealth of Kentucky. 
The policies shall require 30 days written notice to both city and franchisee
prior to any cancellation thereof, and copies of these policies shall be filed
with the city.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 8)
§ 114.09  FRANCHISE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall pay to the city as consideration during the life of
the franchise the sum of not less than 3% of the annual gross receipts of such
franchise.  Such payment shall be in addition to any other payment owed to the
city by the franchisee and shall not be construed as payment in lieu of
personal or real property taxes levied by state, city, or county authorities. 
A franchisee shall annually file with the city 45 days after the expiration of
each fiscal year a financial statement showing in detail the gross annual
receipts, as defined in §
114.01, of the franchisee during that fiscal year.  It shall be the duty of the
franchisee to pay to the city at the time of filing this financial statement
the sums of consideration hereinabove prescribed.
   (B)   In the event the franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior to
the end of the 15-year term, the franchisee shall immediately submit to the
City Commission a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the
gross receipts of the franchisee for the elapsed term since the last period it
paid to the city the required percentage of gross annual receipts, and the
franchisee shall pay to the city not later than 30 days following the
termination of the franchise a like percentage of such gross receipts and any
other sums legally due and owing to the city.
   (C)   In the event that any statement and payment is not made on or before
the applicable date fixed in division (A) of this section, interest on such
payments shall apply from such date at the current prime interest rate.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to inspect a franchisee's records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
shall have the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid
under the franchise.  No acceptance of any payment by the city shall be
construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction of any claim the city
might have for further or additional sums payable under the terms of this
chapter or for any other performance or obligation of a franchisee.
   (E)   Payments of compensation made by a fran- chisee to the city pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a
tax, but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the state, or the city.
   (F)   Sales taxes or any other taxes which are collected from subscribers by
a franchisee and are to be remitted to a governmental agency shall be deducted
from the annual gross revenues.
   (G)   Should the FCC or other governmental agency cease to regulate the
amount of percentage sums payable set forth in division (A) of this section,
then in that event the City Commission and any franchisee shall have the right
to immediately renegotiate the sum and manner of calculation of franchise
payments payable in accordance with this chapter which shall be conditioned on
and subject to agreement on same between the city and any franchisee.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 9)
§ 114.10  FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   (A)   Any ordinance awarding a franchise to operate a cable communications
system in accordance herewith shall apply to its operation throughout all of
the incorporated areas of the city as now or may in the future exist.
   (B)   The franchisee shall endeavor to offer cable communications service to
all residents of the city.  To the extent that the franchisee intends not to
provide service to any specific area, street, building, or other location, the
franchisee shall designate same and clearly indicate in its application for a
franchise the technical or economic reason for its inability to provide service
in the enumerated locations.
   (C)   The franchisee is not required under this chapter or any contract
granted to extend its facilities to any area unless there exists in that area a
potential of at least 35 subscribers per mile of trunk cable system.  When the
potential of 35 subscribers per mile does not exist, the company may make a
charge at actual cost, including labor and material for cable extension, for
service in this portion of the system.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 10)
§ 114.11  TIME SCHEDULE AFTER FRANCHISE IS GRANTED.
   The franchisee shall adhere to the following time schedules:
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance awarding the
franchise, the franchisee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all
necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and any other permits, licenses and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of CATV systems, or their associated microwave
transmission facilities.
   (B)   The company agrees to comply with all of the procedural requirements
of the FCC.  The franchisee shall notify all necessary parties, including the
FCC, within 30 days following the effective date of the ordinance awarding a
franchise of its intent to operate a cable communications system and shall
begin construction within 60 days after action by the FCC, a certificate of
compliance, or operation of law, shall authorize the provision of CATV services
in the city.  If for any reason the franchisee has not notified all parties
within the 30 days, then the franchise shall be considered null and void.
   (C)   Within time period as specified in the franchisee's proposal, the
franchisee shall have achieved substantial completion of construction. 
However, the date to substantially complete construction shall be extended by
the number of days of delay of the franchisee caused by strikes, lockouts,
fire, unusual delay in transportation, unavoidable casualty, or other such
delay authorized by the City Commission.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 11)
§ 114.12  INSTALLATION AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall extend cable to new developments and subdivisions
and to other areas, including, but not limited to, blocks or streets, simul-
taneously with the installation of electric power and telephone utility
facilities, provided same is contiguous to any part of the installed CATV
system.  If it is not, then service shall be extended as soon as same is
contiguous to any part of the installed CATV system.
   (B)   In all cases where new developments and subdivisions are to be
constructed and to be served in whole or in part by both underground power and
telephone utilities, the owner or developer of such areas shall provide the
franchisee the trench, backfill, and all necessary substructures for cables in
order that the franchisee may install all necessary electronic cable
communications facilities.  In no event shall such undergrounding be at any
cost or expense to the city.
   (C)   Failure to install cable in accordance with the construction timetable
as provided in §
114.11 hereof, or to extend cable within 90 days of a subscriber's request for
service to new developments, subdivisions, or other areas in instances
controlled by divisions (A) and (B) of this section hereof shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and a material breach of any agreement awarding a
franchise shall subject the franchisee to all the penalties and remedies
prescribed in this chapter as well as all other remedies, both legal and
equitable, which are available to the city.
   (D)   Cable communications service shall be made available to all individual
dwellings, residences, including apartments, condominiums, cooperative or
associate buildings, institutions, organizations, businesses, and all other
entities within the designated franchise area as the same now or in the future
may exist.
   (E)   Installation and service fees for the first television set of any
subscriber shall be uniform for all entities listed in division (D) above. 
Installation or subscriber use of cable communications system service which
involves retransmission of the cable signal to multiple reception points within
a structure shall be negotiated separately by the franchisee and the owner of
the structure or the subscriber.  Service to condominium buildings shall be on
such conditions as the governing body of the tenants in common may provide and
as are agreed upon by the franchisee.  Neither the franchisee nor the city
shall be responsible or liable for any failure to provide cable communications
service to a lessee or condominium owner whose lessor or governing body refuses
the installation of such service.  The provision of cable communications
services to any multiple dwelling structure shall not be conditioned upon the
purchase by the owner, lessor, or governing body of such structure of any
service of the franchisee or any person designated by it.
   (F)   Residential installation, including multiple drops, shall be offered
as the feeder line passes the dwelling unit.
   (G)   All of the franchisee's cable equipment shall be removed within a
reasonable time, such time not to exceed one month from a subscriber's property
at the subscriber's written request.
      (1)   Where such removal interferes with the provision of cable
communications services to another subscriber, it shall be the obligation of
the subscriber so affected to secure a legal agreement which will enable the
franchisee to provide the subscriber the cable communications service the
subscriber desires.
      (2)   Where attachment to or use of a nonsubscriber's property is
necessary for the provision of cable communications services to a subscriber,
it shall be the obligation of such subscriber to secure a legal agreement which
will enable the franchisee to provide the service the subscriber desires.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a representation,
promise, or guarantee by the city that any permit or other authorization
required under any city law for the construction or installation of a cable
communications system shall be issued.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 12)
§ 114.13  SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The cable communications system shall be designed for operation 24
hours per day and shall endure service interruptions only for good cause and
for a reasonable time.  Permissible interruptions of service shall be for the
shortest possible time.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County which
shall be open to the general public during normal business hours.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have a publicly listed telephone number.  The
franchisee shall also employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering
device 24 hours per day, each day of the year, to receive subscriber
complaints.
   (D)   The franchisee shall maintain a maintenance and repair service capable
of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for repairs within 24 hours
after the receipt of the complaint or request.  If the franchisee or any of its
shareholders owning at least 3% of its stock, or any subsidiary, parent, or
affiliated corporation of the franchisee engages in the business or activity of
selling, leasing, repairing, dismantling, or installing television or radio
receivers, or accessories for such receivers, cameras, audio or video tape
machines, video tapes, microphones, control boxes, modulators, or other
equipment utilized by users or subscribers in the operation of any cable
communications system, the franchisee shall not condition cable communications
service or the continuation thereof or usage of cable communications facility
on a subscriber's purchase of or failure to purchase any of such services or
equipment.
   (E)   In the event that its service to subscribers is interrupted for 48 or
more consecutive hours, except for acts of God, riots, or a state of emergency
declared by the President of the United States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the County Judge/Executive of Jefferson County,
the franchisee shall grant affected subscribers a pro rata credit or rebate for
the full duration of the interruption.  An unreasonable interruption of
subscriber services shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and a breach of
any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and subject the
franchisee to all of the penalties and remedies prescribed in the agreement as
well as all other remedies, both legal and equitable, which are available to
the city.
   (F)   The franchisee shall not deny or delay service or use of cable
communications facility or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or users
on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, or marital
status.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain in constant readiness equipment capable
of providing standby powering for the headend, transportation, and trunk
amplifiers for a minimum of four hours.
      (1)   This equipment shall be constructed so as to revert automatically
to a standby mode when alternating current power returns.
      (2)   The franchisee shall comply with all utility and other safety
regulations to prevent a standby generator from powering the dead utility line
so as to prevent injury to any person.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 13)
§ 114.14  SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   The franchisee shall install a first quality cable system, using
equipment designed by a major supplier of CATV equipment.
   (B)  All necessary return-path, amplifiers, and/or amplifier modules shall
provide maximum two-way service capability, and shall be installed at the time
of initial construction.
   (C)   The number of channels to be provided and their use shall be described
in the franchise proposal.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 14)
§ 114.15  PRIVACY.
   (A)   The franchisee shall strictly observe the privacy and property rights
of subscribers.  The subscriber's rights of privacy shall be protected at all
times by the franchisee.  Individual subscriber preferences, viewing habits,
beliefs, philosophy, creeds, religions, or political beliefs shall not be
revealed to any person, firm, agency, governmental unit, police department, or
investigating agency unless on the authority of a court of law or on prior
voluntary valid written authorization of the subscriber, which shall not in any
event be required as a condition of receiving service.
   (B)   Without the authorization described in division (A) of this section,
neither the franchisee nor any other person shall in any manner activate,
utilize, or otherwise operate any channel from a subscriber's location.
   (C)   Every subscriber shall have the absolute right to deactivate the
return path from the subscriber's receiver at the franchisee's sole cost.
   (D)   The franchisee shall not tabulate any test results, nor permit the use
of its cable communications system for such tabulation, which would reveal the
commercial product preferences or opinions of subscribers, members of their
families or their invitees, licensees or employees.
   (E)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be considered a
material breach of this chapter and any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the franchisee to all
penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other legal or
equitable remedies available to the city.
   (F)   Each compilation, publication, tabulation, or other dissemination of
each piece of information made or permitted to be made in violation of this
section shall be considered a separate violation of this chapter.
   (G)   A subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization previously made
by delivering to the franchisee in writing a substantial indication of his
intent to so revoke.  Any such revocation shall be effective on receipt by the
franchisee.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 15)
§ 114.16  INTERCONNECTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to prohibit the franchisee
from interconnecting its network with other similar networks either in the city
or in other municipalities, counties or states or countries.  Any applicable
revenues derived therefrom shall be equitably allocated in the calculation of
annual gross subscriber revenues.
('81 Code, § 450.1, 16)
§ 114.17  EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency or disaster, a franchisee shall upon the
request of the Jefferson County Judge/Executive, make available its facilities
to the city or to the county, state, or federal government, at no cost for
emergency use during the period of such emergency or disaster and shall provide
such personnel as necessary to properly operate the system under the
circumstances.
   (B)   The franchisee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability of
an emergency override alert whereby the city, in a time of crisis, may be able
to introduce a bulletin on all channels simultaneously.
   (C)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary, in the reasonable judgment of the City Commission, to cut or
move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, or other appurtenances to the
network of the franchisee, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs
rendered necessary thereby shall be made by the franchisee at its sole expense,
provided that such repairs are not necessitated by a negligent act of the city,
in which case, cost for repairs shall be borne by the city.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 17)
§ 114.18  RATES.
   (A)   The City Commission expressly reserves the right and retains its
jurisdiction to authorize, establish, and approve all rates which the
franchisee charges subscribers, including rates for subscriber service,
equipment, maintenance, and repair.  By acceptance of a franchise, the
franchisee agrees that the City Commission shall have such power, right, and
jurisdiction.  All rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory.
   (B)   No rate, fee, or charge of any kind shall be charged or collected from
subscribers by the franchisee without the authorization and approval of the
City Commission.  Violation of this section shall be deemed to be a breach of
any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the
franchisee to all remedies and penalties prescribed in this chapter and to all
other remedies, legal and equitable, which are available to the city.
   (C)   The initial rates to be charged and collected from subscribers shall
be in conformity with the franchisee's application and established in the
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter and shall remain
in force for a minimum of 30 months from and after the date of execution of
this agreement and the effective date of the ordinance awarding the franchise. 
Provided, however, that should the City Commission determine to amend any
franchise within the purview of §
114.27, the franchisee may request rate increases or decreases in accordance
with this section.
   (D)   The franchisee shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer on December 31
each year a full schedule of all subscriber and user rates and all other
charges made in connection with the operation of the cable communications
system.
      (1)   Any and all special rates for institutions, motels, hotels, inns,
multiple-family dwelling units, or any other type of subscriber shall be
included.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the reduction
or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose
of attracting subscribers and users.
   (F)   The franchisee shall neither impose nor collect any additional charge
for the disconnection of any installation or outlet.
   (G)   In the event that a subscriber fails to pay a properly due and owing
fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscriber's service outlet,
on giving ten days written notice thereof.
   (H)   The franchisee shall establish and conform to the following policy
regarding refunds to subscribers and users.
      (1)   If the franchisee collects a deposit or advance charge on any
service or equipment requested by a subscriber or user, the franchisee shall
provide said service or equipment within 30 days of the collection of the
deposit or charge or it shall refund said deposit or charge within five days
thereafter.
         (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any responsibility to subscribers or users under any contractual
agreements into which it enters with them.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
franchisee's liability for penalties which may be imposed under this chapter or
for the violation or breach of any of its provisions.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
franchisee's liability for damages because of its failure to provide the
service for which the deposit or charge was made.
      (2)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service during the first
12 months because of the failure of the franchisee to render the service in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter, or in any agreement
or ordinance in accordance with this chapter, the franchisee shall refund to
such subscriber an amount equal to the initial applicable installation or
reconnection charge paid by the subscriber.
         (a)   In the event that such subscriber has made an advance payment
the amount so advanced shall be refunded to such subscriber by the franchisee.
         (b)   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any liability established under any other provision of this
chapter or any agreement or ordinance in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service prior to the end
of a prepaid period, the pro rata portion of any prepaid subscriber fee which
represents payment for services which are no longer to be rendered, shall be
refunded promptly, but in no case more than 30 days after receipt of the
request for termination.
   (I)   The franchisee shall not charge a converter security deposit greater
than the converter's actual cost to the franchisee.  Any converter security
deposit collected by the franchisee shall be returned to the subscriber 36
months after the installation of such converter or within 60 days on
termination of service by the subscriber and return of such converter
undamaged, with allowance for reasonable wear and tear, and payment of any
outstanding balance due and payable.
   (J)   A franchisee may, from time to time, subject to the limitation
contained in division (C) of this section, request of the City Commission rate
increases or decreases.  A franchisee shall be allowed to increase its rates
and charges if it is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City
Commission that it is unable to realize a fair return on its investment,
without a rate or charge increase.  The City Commission shall establish the
procedure for hearings and review of any such request.  The City Commission may
allow rate or charge reduction at any time if it shall determine that the
existing rates and charges unreasonably restrict the growth of cable television
in the city and that the proposed rates and charges will continue to allow the
franchisee a reasonable profit.  Any such request shall be made no less than 60
days in advance of the effective date of the change or changes requested.
   (K)   A franchisee may, at any time, request of the City Commission,
establishment, authorization, and approval of rates and charges for new or
additional services which the franchisee desires to offer its subscribers.  Any
such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the offering of
such new or additional services.
   (L)   In the event the franchisee for the city also has a CATV franchise for
the unincorporated area of Jefferson County, the rates for like services in the
city shall not exceed the rates charged for identical services in the
unincorporated area of Jefferson County.  In the event that the Fiscal Court of
Jefferson County approves a rate increase or reduction for the same CATV
franchisee that has the city franchise, the franchisee shall within ten days
thereafter file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a complete schedule of the
Jefferson County approved CATV rates.  The City Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith
advise all members of the City Commission and the Mayor of the approved
Jefferson County CATV rate schedule.  Unless the franchisee, a member of the
City Commission, or the Mayor requests a CATV rate hearing for city rates
within 60 days after the filing of the approved Jefferson County CATV rate
schedule with the City Clerk/Trea-surer, the approved Jefferson County CATV
rate schedule shall automatically be the approved and authorized CATV rate
schedule for the city, effective 61 days after the approved Jefferson County
CATV rate schedule is filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer by the franchisee.
   (M)   No charge shall be made to the city for its use of channels reserved
to the city or for the construction and operation of the coaxial between a city
studio and the cable communications system head-end, and under no circumstances
shall the city be obligated to pay to a franchisee any fee for service rendered
to the city under the terms of the franchise.
   (N)   Nothing shall be deemed to prohibit the setting of special rates for
certain classes of citizens for certain types of subscriber service, when, by
the determination of the City Commission, and at its sole discretion, such
special rates are justified by the potential of such service to assist with the
health, care, and/or safety of such citizens.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 18)
§ 114.19  POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any agreement or ordinance in accordance
herewith shall be construed as an abrogation by the city of any of its police
powers.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 19)
§ 114.20  TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not transfer, assign, sell, lease or dispose of,
its interest in any franchise or ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in
accordance with this chapter or in its cable communications system without the
prior written authorization of the City Commission.  A merger or consolidation
shall be deemed a transfer or assignment.
   (B)   During the term of any franchise, the fran- chisee shall not sell,
transfer, assign, lease, dispose of, exchange or release of more than 25% of
the owner-ship of its cable communications system to a person (hereinafter
“proposed transferee”) without the prior written authorization of the City
Commission.
      (1)   In seeking the prior written authorization required under this
chapter, the franchisee shall have the responsibility to:
         (a)   Show to the satisfaction of the City Commission whether the
proposed transferee, which, in the case of a corporation, shall include all
officers, directors, employees and all persons having a legal or equitable
interest in 25% or more of its voting stock, or any of the proposed
transferee's principals:
            1.   Has ever been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude,
including, but not limited to, criminal fraud, or is presently under an
indictment charging such a crime.
            2.   Has ever had a judgement in an action for fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation entered against it, her, him or them by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
            3.   Has pending any legal claim or law suit arising out of or
involving a cable communication system.
         (b)   Establish to the satisfaction of the city the financial solvency
of the proposed transferee which the franchisee was required to submit in its
application for a franchise in accordance herewith, and such other financial
data as the city may request.
   (C)   Any proposed transferee shall execute an agreement, in the form and
containing the conditions approved by the City Attorney that it will assume and
be bound by all of the provisions, terms and conditions of this chapter and any
agreement or chapter in accordance herewith and all applicable federal, state
and local laws and further that it shall be primarily liable and obligated
under the documents without, however, relieving the franchisee from its
obligations to the city under the document.
   (D)   No transfer under division (A) or (B) of this section shall be made
within 13 months of the termination date of the term of the franchise
agreement.
   (E)   Nothing in any approval by the City Commission of any transfer or
assignment of any ownership interest pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) of this
section shall be construed to waive or release any rights of the city in and to
the streets, public ways and public places of the city or as a release of any
of the city's police powers.
   (F)   The occurrence of any event which consti- tutes either grounds for
entry of an order for relief under the United States Bankruptcy Code, or place-
ment of the franchisee into receivership, or the issuance of any order to the
franchisee or any of its stockholders by a government agency or court of
competent jurisdiction to divest any interest related to the cable
communications system, or the entry of any judgement against the franchise
which, in the opinion of the City Commission impairs the franchisee's credit
shall be deemed an unauthorized transfer and assignment under the provisions of
this section and shall:
      (1)   Be deemed a material breach and default of any agreement or
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith; and
      (2)   Subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies prescribed in
the agreement and to all other remedies, legal and equitable which are
available to the city.
   (G)   The occurrence of an unauthorized transfer or assignment may, at the
option of the city, terminate any agreement and franchise and accelerate all of
the obligations and rights thereunder including, inter alia, the right of the
city to purchase the cable communications system at book value or to award a
franchise to another person.  The franchisee shall notify the City Clerk/
Treasurer of any occurrence which constitutes an unauthorized transfer under
the provisions of division (F) of this section and of the entry of any
judgement against it within 24 hours of such occurrence.
   (H)   From and after any of the occurrences enumerated in division (F) of
this section, the franchisee shall not make, execute or enter into any deed,
deed of trust, mortgage, contract, conditional sales contract or any loan,
lease, pledge, sale, pole agreement or any other agreement or hypothecation
concerning any of the facilities or property, real or personal, of the cable
communications system without the written approval of the City Commission.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 20)
§ 114.21  ABANDONMENT.
   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for any
reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event
such system or property has been installed in any street or public place
without complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted have
been terminated, cancelled, or have expired, the franchisee shall promptly
remove from the streets and public places all such property and poles of such
system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place.  In
the event of such removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore the street or
other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the City Commission.  Any property of a franchisee to be
abandoned in place, shall be abandoned in such manner as City Commission may
prescribe.  Upon a permanent abandonment of the property of a franchisee in
place, the franchisee shall submit to the City Commission an instrument to be
approved by the City Commission, transferring to the city ownership of such
property.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 21)
§ 114.22  CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmissions and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the city shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of these streets,
alleys, or other public places.  The cable communications system shall be
constructed and operated in compliance with all adopted local and national
construction and safety codes.
   (B)   The installation of the cable communications system shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city affecting electrical installations
and buildings, now or hereafter in effect.
   (C)   Except when absolutely necessary to service a subscriber and not
simply because it shall be more convenient, economical, or profitable for the
franchisee to so operate, and then only when expressly permitted in writing by
the City Engineer, under such conditions as he shall prescribe for the public
welfare, the franchisee shall not erect or authorize or permit others to erect
any poles or other facilities within the streets of the city for the conduct of
its cable communications system, but shall use the existing poles and other
equipment of the appropriate electrical power and telephone or other utility
companies under such terms and agreements as the franchisee shall negotiate
with these companies.  The franchisee shall use its best efforts to insure that
the terms and agreements between the franchisee and any utility company are
concluded in a reasonable time with no unnecessary delay.
   (D)   Should the franchisee be required to place any lines or other
equipment on any boulevard, parkway, or other property under control of the
Metropolitan Parks and Recreation Board, the manner of placement and location
shall be subject to the control of the Board.
   (E)   The franchisee may trim trees which infringe on easements, rights-of-
way, or streets of the city to prevent the trees from coming in contact with
the cable communications system.
   (F)   The franchisee shall at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of the franchisee located on
streets, public places, rights-of-way, and easements of the city, when required
by the City Commission because of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines,
and tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.  If the franchisee fails to do so, the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky may cause the necessary work to be completed and the
franchisee shall pay the cost thereof within ten days of receipt of an itemized
account of such cost.
   (G)   Whenever the city or the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall require the
relocation or reinstallation of any property of the franchisee in any of the
streets or public places of the city, it shall be the obligation of the
franchisee upon notice of such requirement to immediately remove and relocate
or reinstall said property as may be reasonably necessary at the sole cost of
the franchisee.
   (H)   Whenever, in any place within the city, all or any part of the
electric or telephone utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the
obligation of the franchisee to locate or to cause its property to be located
underground within such places.  If the electric or telephone utilities shall
be located underground, in any place within the city after the franchisee shall
have previously installed its property, nevertheless, the franchisee shall, at
the same time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places.  If the franchisee shall in any case be unable, for
operational reasons only, to locate or relocate any part of its property
underground, then in that event the City Engineer, on being satisfied as to the
facts thereof and subject to the concurrence of the City Commission, may permit
such property to remain above the ground even though other facilities may be
placed underground in the area.  However, any such permission shall be upon
such conditions as the City Commission may require for the public welfare.  Any
facilities of the franchisee placed underground at the property owner's
request, in an area where electric and telephone facilities are aerial, shall
be installed with the additional expense paid by the property owner.
   (I)   In the case of disturbance of any street caused by the franchisee, the
franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
City Engineer, replace and restore such street, in such a condition as before
the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (J)   The franchisee shall upon request temporarily raise or lower its wires
to permit the moving of buildings or other things.  The expense of such
temporary removal or raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the
person requesting the same and the franchisee shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance.  The franchisee shall begiven not less than 72
hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 22)
§ 114.23  ARRANGEMENTS BY FRANCHISEE WITH OTHERS.
   There is granted to the franchisee authority to lease, rent, or in any other
manner obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment and
facilities from any and all holders of public licenses and utilities within the
city, including, but not limited to, the South Central Bell Telephone Company
and Louisville Gas and Electric Company, and in each instance the franchisee
shall make its own contractual arrangements with such entity in order to obtain
the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other facilities and shall report
their arrangements to the City Engineer.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 23)
§ 114.24  REVIEW, RENEWAL, TERMINATION AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   To provide for technological changes in the state of the art of cable
communications, to facilitate renewal procedures, to promote the maximum degree
of flexibility in the cable communications system and to achieve a continuing,
advanced, modern system for the city, the City Commission and the franchisee
shall comply with the following review provisions:
      (1)   The City Commission may upon the giving of proper notice hold a
review session within 30 days of the second anniversary date of the execution
of the franchise agreement and/or ordinance awarding a franchise.  Subsequent
review sessions may be scheduled by the City Commission at two-year intervals
thereafter.  All such review sessions shall be open to the public and notice
shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation at least
one week before each session.  In addition, the franchisee shall announce the
date and time of each such session, on each of at least five days immediately
preceding each session, at a minimum of six regularly scheduled intervals
daily.
      (2)   Either the city or the franchisee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session.
      (3)   Any topic proposed for discussion at any regular or special review
session by a resident of the city and supported by a petition bearing the
signature of 100 city residents, shall be included in the list of topics for
discussion.
   (B)   The procedure for renewal or termination of any franchise or agreement
or ordinance awarding the franchise shall require public hearings prior to
action by the City Commission.  Hearings in connection with a renewal of a
franchise shall take place not less than 90 days prior to the termination of
the franchise.  The City Commission shall after hearing take such action as it
deems appropriate, which may include any of the following:
      (1)   The City Commission may renew the franchise and agreement and
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter upon such
conditions as it may direct.
      (2)   The City Commission may authorize the franchisee to transfer the
cable communications system to another acceptable franchisee or cable operator.
      (3)   The City Commission may solicit proposals for and execute a new
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter and any
amendments hereto.
      (4)   The City Commission may determine not to authorize the award of any
further franchise, and thereon, may direct the franchisee to dismantle its
cable communication system.
      (5)   If the franchisee determines not to renew the agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith, the City Council shall proceed to follow one
of the courses under division (B)(2) or (3) of this section.
   (C)   Termination.
      (1)   The City Commission may terminate any agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith in the event of the violation of any provision
hereof or of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto or of any
applicable federal, state, or local law, or the breach or other failure,
refusal, or neglect by the franchisee to perform its obligations under the
terms and conditions of the chapter of any ordinance or agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance with this chapter, except when such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect is caused by any of the following:
         (a)   Act of God;
         (b)   Riot;
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the City Commission;
or
         (d)   A condition beyond the control of the franchisee.
      (2)   In the event that the City Commission determines that the
franchisee has violated any provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state, or local law, or
any term of an agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, except as noted in 
division (C)(1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section, the City Commission shall
make a written demand on the franchisee that it comply with the law or the
agreement or ordinance.  If the violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect
is not remedied to the satisfaction of the City Commission within 30 days
following such demand, the City Commission shall determine whether or not, in
its sole discretion, such violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by
the franchisee was excusable or inexcusable as provided in division (C)(1)(a),
(b), (c), or (d) of this section.
         (a)   If the City Commission determines such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in
division (C)(1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section the City Commission shall
direct the franchisee to correct or remedy the same within such additional
time, in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as the Fiscal Court may
direct.
         (b)   If the City Commission determines such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable as provided in
division (C)(1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section, then the City Commission
shall declare this chapter, the franchise, or the agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise breached, terminated, and of no further force and effect. 
This action shall be taken by ordinance. Termination shall in no way limit the
rights of the city or the franchisee to any remedies legal or equitable
available to the city or franchisee.
      (3)   If the City Commission declares the agreement breached pursuant to
division (C)(1) of this section, the City Commission may pursue any remedies
available to it pursuant to this chapter or to the franchise agreement or
ordinance or any other remedy, legal, or equitable, available to the City
Commission.  In addition, the City Commission may take action listed in
division (B)(2), (3), or (4) of this section.
   (D)   In the event that the franchisee dismantles or terminates the cable
communications system or is required by any provision of this chapter to
dismantle or terminate the cable communications system, the franchisee shall,
at the City Commission's direction, restore any property, public or private, to
the condition in which it existed prior to the erection or construction of the
system, including any improvements made to such property subsequent to the
construction of the system.  Restoration of city property, including, but not
limited to, streets, shall be in accordance with the directions and
specifications of the City Commission and all applicable laws.  The franchisee,
at the option and direction of the City Commission, shall restore the same at
its expense.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 24)
§ 114.25  REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise issued in accordance with this chapter may, after
hearing be revoked, altered, or suspended by the City Commission as it deems
necessary on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   For willful false or misleading statement in, or material omissions
from, any application;
      (2)   For failure to file and maintain the bonds required under this
chapter;
      (3)   For repeated failure, as determined by the City Commission to
maintain signal quality;
      (4)   For any sale, lease, assignment, or other transfer of its permit
without consent of the City Commission;
      (5)   For an inability to provide CATV service to subscribers at the
rates authorized by the City Commission;
      (6)   For failure to properly provide service to subscribers or to the
city; or
      (7)   For violation of the terms of its franchise, the agreement or
ordinance awarding same, or of this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to
the City Commission, the City Commission reserves as an additional and as a
separate and distinct remedy the right to revoke the franchise and all rights
and privileges of the franchisee thereunder in any of the following events or
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The franchisee shall by act or omission fail to comply with any
term or condition of this chapter and shall within 30 days following written
demand by the City Commission to effect such compliance fail or refuse to do
so; or
      (2)   Any provision of this chapter shall be finally adjudged by a court
of law invalid or unenforceable and the City Commission further finds that such
provision constitutes at that time a consideration material to the continuance
of the franchise herein granted; or
      (3)   The franchisee becomes insolvent; unable, unwilling, or fails to
pay its debts as such debts become due; or a custodian, receiver, trustee, or
agent appointed or authorized to do so, is appointed or takes charge of less
than substantially all or substantially all of the property of a franchisee for
the purpose of enforcing any lien, whether judicial, execution, or otherwise;
is the subject debtor of an order for relief entered by a Bankruptcy Court; or
all or part of a franchisee's facilities be sold under an instrument to secure
a debt and are not redeemed by franchisee within 30 days from the sale.
      (4)   The franchisee attempts to or practices any fraud or deceit in its
conduct or relations under the franchise.
   (C)   No such revocation shall be effective unless or until the City
Commission shall have adopted an ordinance setting forth the cause and reasons
for the revocation and the effective date thereof, which ordinance shall not be
adopted without 30 days prior notice thereof to the franchisee and a full
opportunity offered to the franchisee to be heard upon the proposed adoption of
that ordinance.  The franchisee shall not be declared in default or be subject
to any sanction under any provision of this contract in any case in which the
performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond its control.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 25)
§ 114.26  FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the cable communications system, or upon the termination of any lease
covering all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify
the City Commission of such fact, and such notification shall be treated as a
notification that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place and the
provisions of this chapter governing the consent of the City Commission to such
change in control of the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The City Commission shall have the right to cancel this franchise 120
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or
unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his election of appointment, such receiver or
trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of this chapter
and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise and remedied all defaults.
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within the 120 days shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 26)
§ 114.27  BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County for so
long as it continues to operate the cable communications system or any portion
thereof and hereby designates such offices as the place where all notices,
directions, orders, and requests may be served or delivered under this
chapter.  The City Commission shall be notified of the location of such office
or any change thereof.
   (B)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (C)   The City Commission and its representatives shall have access to all
books of account and records of the franchisee for the purpose of ascertaining
the correctness of any and all reports and may examine its officers and
employees in respect thereto.
   (D)   Any false entry in the books of account or records submitted to the
City Commission and its representatives to a material fact, knowingly made by
the franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material provision of this
chapter and any franchise agreement or ordinance in accordance with this
chapter, for which the remedies provided in this chapter may be invoked.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 27)
§ 114.28  NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   It shall be the policy of the City Commission to liberally amend any
franchise of its own volition or upon application of a franchisee, after public
hearing, when necessary to require or enable a franchisee to take advantage of
any developments in the field of transmission of television and radio signals
which would afford the franchisee an opportunity to more effectively,
efficiently, or economically serve its customers so that at all times the cable
communications system shall be no less advanced than any other system of
comparable size, excepting only systems which are experimental, pilot, or
demonstration.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 28)
§ 114.29  TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in
accordance with this chapter, shall set forth any time for any act to be
performed by or on behalf of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed of the
essence, and any failure of a franchisee to perform within the time set forth
shall constitute a material breach of the terms of this chapter and shall
entitle the City Commission to invoke all penalties and remedies prescribed in
this chapter as well as all other legal or equitable remedies available to the
city.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 29)
§ 114.30  FRANCHISEE NOT TO CONTEST VALIDITY.
   By acceptance of any franchise in accordance with this chapter, a franchisee
covenants and agrees that it will not at any time or in any manner or
proceeding set up any term or condition of this chapter or of any ordinance or
agreement awarding a franchise as unreasonable, arbitrary, voidable, or void,
or that the City Commission had not the power or authority to make such term or
condition, but shall be required to accept the validity of same in their
entirety.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 30)
§ 114.31  INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, the
franchisee shall not install any boxes, objects or articles on or so near the
ground in such a way as to obstruct the ordinary use of such property, whether
such property be part of the city property, right-of-way, or private property.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 34)
§ 114.32  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the incorporated areas of the
city, any television, radio, or nonbroadcast signals by means of a cable
communications system unless a franchise therefor has first been obtained from
the City Commission, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, or maintain
within any public street in the incorporated areas of the city, equipment or
facilities for distributing any television, radio or nonbroadcast signals
through a cable communications system, unless a franchise authorizing such use
of such street or property or area has first been obtained from the City
Commission, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of taking or
receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sound, or
other non-broadcast signals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of enabling
himself or others to receive any television signal, radio signal, picture,
programs, sound, or other signals without payment to the owner of this system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cables, wire, or equipment used
in any cable communications system.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 31)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
114.15 or
114.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $250 or by imprisonment for a term
of not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, except that a
corporation shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$5,000.
   (B)   Each day that a person violates or fails to comply with the terms of
§§
114.15 or
114.32 shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
('81 Code, § 450.1, § 32)
CHAPTER 115:  TRANSMISSION TOWERS
Section
   
115.01   Towers prohibited
   
115.02   Definitions
§ 115.01  TOWERS PROHIBITED.
   No transmission towers shall be constructed or placed within the city that
is taller than 40 feet in height.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-4-93)
§ 115.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSMISSION TOWER.  Any tower or other device used for the purpose of
originating, receiving, relaying, or transmitting any television, radio,
telephone, electrical or other signal of any kind.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 5-4-93)
CHAPTER 116:  HOME BUSINESSES
Section
   
116.01   Restrictions
   
116.02   Intent
   
116.03   Determination
   
116.04   Enforcement
 
   
116.99   Penalties
§ 116.01  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person may engage in a home-based business within the single-family
residential (R-1 through R-5) areas of the city unless:
      (1)   The business is an occupation carried on by a resident of a
dwelling as a secondary use within the same dwelling and in connection with
which there is no person employed other than a member of the family residing on
the premises.
      (2)   There is no advertising or any other display (including
advertisement on the side of a truck) which will indicate from the exterior
that the building is being used for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
      (3)   There are no retail sales to the general public on the premises.
      (4)   No more than 10% of the floor area, basement area and attached
garage area combined of the building is used in the business.
      (5)   No mechanical equipment is used or parked on the premises except
such equipment as is permissible for purely domestic purposes.
      (6)   No employees, nor their vehicles, are dropped off or picked up at
the premises and employee vehicles are not left at the premises during the day.
      (7)   No work vehicles over 6,000 pounds gross weight are left on the
premises except in a garage and no more than five vehicles (owned by the
resident) of any type are present on the premises at any one time.
   (B)   The fact that any vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in
the name of a person, firm or corporation shall be considered prima facie proof
that such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
   (C)   The owner of any property on which any vehicle is parked in violation
of this chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as the owner of the
vehicle or person illegally parking or storing the vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 1-10-00)
§ 116.02  INTENT.
   This chapter is not to be construed to affect:
   (A)   Once- or twice-per-year yard sales or the placement of for sale signs
on houses or cars, as long as such activity is not conducted on a routine basis
in the manner of a business enterprise;
   (B)   Home trades which involve some neighborhood sales or services (such as
neighborhood lawn mower repair, sewing, etc.) which are not drawing customers
from outside the neighborhood for sales or services to the general public on
the premises.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 1-10-00)
§ 116.03  DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to make a determination that from a
totality of circumstances, including but not limited to parking, lighting,
traffic, noise, volume of customers or type of business conducted, that a
certain business is a nuisance in the community and is thereby prohibited and
in violation of this chapter, even if such business does not technically
violate any of the foregoing provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This determination can only be made after the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   A written complaint from an adjacent property owner is filed with
the city setting out in detail the items complained about and why they are a
nuisance.  Such complaint must contain the full name, address and phone number
of the person making the complaint.
      (2)   The City Commission investigates the business complained of and in
a public meeting makes a determination by a majority vote of the commission
whether in the commission’s opinion, considering the totality of the
circumstances, the business constitutes a nuisance to the city.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 1-10-00)
§ 116.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to ensure compliance as
authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 1-10-00)
§ 116.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall
apply.
      (3)   An continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefore.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty of $50
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. 
      (3)   As used herein, "cited" shall mean notification of the violation
and the penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or
the official attorney for the city.  The civil penalty may be used as an
alternative to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 1-10-00)
CHAPTER 117:  COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISES
Section
   
117.01   General provisions
   
117.02   Communications services
   
117.03   Right-of-way management and facilities requirements
   
117.04   Miscellaneous
   
117.05   Private communications facilities
   
117.06   Liabilities and penalties
   
117.07   Remedies not exclusive
§ 117.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Declaration of findings. The City of Forest Hills hereby declares as a
legislative finding that the rights-of-way within the city:
      (1)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
      (2)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
      (3)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      (4)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and public
service entities, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well being of the city and its citizens; and
      (5)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral and non-discretionary manner as established by this
chapter to ensure coordination of users, maximize available space, and
facilitate entry of a maximum number of providers of communications and other
services in the public interest.
   (B)   Title. This chapter may be referred to and cited as the
"Communications Services Franchise Ordinance".
   (C)   Applicability. The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the
full extent of the terms herein and shall be limited in scope or application
only to the extent as may be required by applicable federal or state law,
including such changes in applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted. No
provisions of this chapter shall be disregarded pursuant to this subsection
except on express application to and determination by the city to such effect
based on the specific factual circumstances demonstrated. The provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed incorporated in each communications franchise
granted.
   (D)   Preservation of authority. Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter
and pursuant to any franchise authorized hereunder are subject to the authority
of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety,
and welfare of the public. Franchisees and other holders of franchises shall be
subject to and comply with all applicable laws enacted by the city pursuant to
its Home Rule or statutory powers, to the extent not in conflict with Kentucky
or federal law. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to waive a right, if
any, that any party may have to seek judicial or regulatory review as to the
provisions herein or as to actions of the parties under applicable federal,
state, or local law currently in effect or as may hereinafter be amended.
   (E)   Public inspection of records. Certain information required to be filed
with the city pursuant to this chapter is subject to inspection and copying by
the public pursuant to the provisions of the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS
61.870 et seq.
   (F)   Indemnification. As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each
franchisee at its sole cost and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend (with
counsel acceptable to the city) and hold harmless the city, its elected
officials, officers, employees, and agents, from and against any and all
claims, demands, losses, damages, liabilities, fines, charges, penalties,
administrative and judicial proceedings and orders, judgments, remedial actions
of any kind, and all costs and expenses of any kind, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorney's fees and costs of defense arising, directly
or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of or in relation to the city's award
of the franchise, the rights granted to the franchisee, or the activities
performed, or failed to be performed, by such franchisee under the franchise or
use of the rights-of-way, except to the extent such acts or use arise from or
are caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its elected
officials, officers, or employees. This indemnification shall survive the
expiration or termination of any franchise or use of the rights-of- way.
   (G)   Compliance with laws. in performing activities and exercising rights
and obligations under any franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a
franchise shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
ordinances, regulations and policies, including, but not limited to, all laws,
ordinances, regulations and policies relating to construction and use of public
property.
   (H)   Enforcement; attorneys' fees. The city shall be entitled to enforce
this chapter and any franchise through all remedies lawfully available, and
each franchisee shall pay the city its costs of enforcement, including but not
limited to reasonable attorneys' fees, in the event that franchisee is
determined judicially to have violated the terms of this chapter or any
franchise.
   (I)   Relationship of the parties. Under no circumstances shall any
franchise authorized by this chapter be construed to create any relationship of
agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment between the parties.
   (J)   Defined terms. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this
section, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive.
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
      AFFILIATE.  As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person.
      ANTENNA.  Any device that transmits or receives signals. Such signals
include but are not limited to radio and infrared waves for voice, data or
video communications purposes.
      CABLE FRANCHISE.  The rights and obligations extended by the city to a
person to own, lease, construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the
rights-of-way within the franchise area for the purpose of providing cable
services.
      CABLE INTERNET SERVICES.  The provision by a person of access to the
Internet or any Intranet to customers over a cable system and shall include the
provision of incidental services that are required by law to be treated under
the same regulation as such direct access service. The city shall treat cable
Internet services as a cable service unless it is definitively determined under
applicable law that cable Internet service is not a cable service, in which
case any person providing or wishing to provide cable Internet services shall
obtain a separate communications franchise from the city. All prior payments to
the city attributable to cable Internet service under a cable franchise shall
be irrefutably deemed to be lawful compensation, irrespective of any rates or
terms required for any future use under any new communications franchise.
      CABLE SERVICES shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term
"Cable Service" at 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
      CABLE SYSTEM shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term
"Cable System" at 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
      THE CITY.  The City of Forest Hills, Kentucky.
      COMMUNICATIONS.  The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in
part, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the
user's choosing (e.g., data, video, voice), without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received, regardless of the statutory or
regulatory scheme to which such transmissions may be subject.
      COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE.  A franchise for use of the rights-of-way for
communications services as authorized herein and executed by the city and
franchisee.
      COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEE.  The fee imposed by the city on franchisee
for use of the rights-of-way pursuant to a communications franchise granted
under this chapter.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.  The transmission via facilities, in whole or in
part, of any writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds or other forms of
intelligence through wire, wireless or other means, including, but not limited
to, any "telecommunications service," "enhanced service," "information
service," or "Internet service," as such terms are now, or may in the future
be, defined under federal law, and including all instrumentality, facilities,
conduit, apparatus ("communications facilities"), and services (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, and delivery of telecommunications) incidental
to or designed to directly or indirectly facilitate or accept such
transmission. This term does not include cable service or open video system
service, but cable services and open video system service shall be subject to
separate franchising requirements and applications. This term does not include
over-the-air radio or television broadcasts to the public at large licensed by
the FCC or any successor thereto.
      FACILITIES.  Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon,
under, or through the rights-of-way.
      FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of
America or any successor thereto.
      FRANCHISE.  A communications franchise as defined herein or any other
franchise granted by the city pursuant to Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky
Constitution or by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of
Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution which permits the use of the
rights-of-way for communications services. Use of this definition in this
chapter is not intended to include any license or permit for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city, as may be required by
any other ordinance or laws of the city or the state.
      FRANCHISE AREA.  Unless otherwise specified in the applicable franchise,
the entire area of the city as it is now constituted or may in the future be
constituted, except that such area shall not include any area within another
municipality within the city.
      FRANCHISEE.  The party subject to a communications franchise, or its
successors, assigns, or transferees.
      LESSEE.  A person who provides communications services within the city
solely by leasing facilities and who has no control over what, where or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored or otherwise used.
      OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM (OVS) SERVICE shall have the same meaning as is
ascribed to the term at 47 U.S.C. 573.
      PRIVATE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.  A system used by a person solely in
connection with such person's business, provided that such person does not use,
or permit the use of, such system to provide communications services to any
other person.
      PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER.  A person that owns or leases a
private communications system.
      RENEWAL.  A new communications franchise granted to an existing
franchisee.
      RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER.  A person who provides communications services
within the city solely by reselling communications services and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored or otherwise used.
      RIGHTS-OF-WAY.  The surface and space on, above and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane or other public right-of-way dedicated or commonly
used now or hereafter for utility purposes and facilities thereon, including,
but not limited to, overhead lighting facilities. RIGHTS-OF- WAY shall not
include public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for
rights-of-way use, including, but not limited to, parks or public works
facilities.
      STATE.  The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      SYSTEM.  Any and all equipment, structures, materials or tangible
components located in the rights-of-way and used to provide communications
services, including without limitation all plant (whether inside or outside),
cabinets, surface location markers, fiber strands, electronic equipment,
amplification equipment, optic equipment, transmission and distribution
structures, antennae, lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts, regenerators,
repeaters, vaults, pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes, splice closures,
wires, cables, towers, wave guides, and anything else designed and constructed
for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying or distributing
communications services.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT.  The Telecommunications Act of 1996 coded at
Title 47 of the United States Code.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.02  COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
   (A)   Unlawful to operate without a franchise. It shall be unlawful for any
person to erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace, remove or restore
communications facilities or to provide communications services by use of
facilities in the rights-of-way in the city without a valid, unexpired
franchise from the city, unless otherwise specifically authorized under
applicable federal or state law, or otherwise provided by ordinance. Unless
otherwise provided hereinafter by the city ordinance, reseller service
providers and lessees shall not be required to obtain a franchise. Private
communication systems shall not require a franchise, but shall be licensed
pursuant to §
117.05. A cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, that provides cable services
as herein defined under a valid cable franchise granted by the city, shall not
be required to obtain a communications franchise hereunder; provided, however,
if a cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, extends facilities in the right-
of-way solely for the provision of telecommunications services, then it shall
pay the linear per foot fee as set forth in this section, if no revenue for the
computation of cable franchise fees are received from such extended facilities.
   (B)   Franchises nonexclusive. The authority granted by the city in any
franchise shall be for the nonexclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city
specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises or other rights to use the rights-of-way for any purpose to any
other person, including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to all
applicable laws.
   (C)   Nature of rights granted by any franchise. Franchises shall not convey
title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way, and shall give only the right
to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes and for the period stated in this
chapter and as may be further limited by the franchise. No franchise may excuse
franchisee from obtaining appropriate access or attachment agreements before
locating its facilities on another person's facilities. All franchises shall be
deemed to incorporate and be limited by the provisions of this chapter and
shall create rights inuring solely to the benefit of the franchisee.
   (D)   Application and application fee required.
      (1)   Applications for an original communications franchise granted
hereunder shall be filed with the city with ten additional copies. All
applications received by the city from the applicants will become the sole
property of the city. Applicants shall submit all requested information as
provided by the terms of this chapter. The following information must be
complete and verified as true by the applicant:
         (a)   Filing fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application fee of $1,000 payable to the city. Said application fee shall
defray in whole or part the city's costs to process any application filed under
this chapter and negotiate, award and administer any franchise. Said
application fee shall not be considered communications franchise fee payments.
         (b)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant's name, address, e-
mail address and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and
signature of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name, address
and e-mail address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local
representative who shall be available at all times; and information regarding
how to contact the local representative in an emergency.
         (c)   Description of proposed system. A description of the applicant's
proposed system design.
         (d)   Services. A statement setting forth a description of all the
types of services proposed.
         (e)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation or
limited liability company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, as certified by the
Secretary of State. Applicant must fully disclose the ownership of the
facilities to be used in rendering the service.
         (f)   Technical description. Applicant shall provide a technical
description of the type of system proposed by the applicant and applicant's
plan for the installation of the system. The following information shall be
included in the application:
            1.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the rights-of-way, information in sufficient
detail to identify the location of the existing ducts or conduits to be
occupied.
            2.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within
new ducts or conduits to be constructed within the rights-of-way:
            (i)   The location, depth, size and quantity of proposed new ducts
or conduits;
            (ii)   A preliminary installation schedule and completion date.
         (g)   Engineering statement. A statement from the applicant's senior
technical staff member, or consultant, advising that the applicant's planned
system and operations thereof would meet all the requirements set forth herein.
         (h)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Supplementary, additional or other information that the
applicant deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time
as its application but must be separately bound and submitted with the above
number of copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional
information as part of the application.
            2.   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening
of the applications, provided that any modifications must be duly executed in
the manner that the applicant's application must be executed.
            3.   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the
Public Service Commission ("PSC") where the applicant is lawfully required to
have such certificate from the PSC.
            4.   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the
FCC where the
applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC.
            5.   A copy of all insurance policies and certificates required
under this chapter.
            6.   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant agrees
to be bound by all provisions of the franchise and agrees to obtain all
applicable permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or
operating a system in the right-of-way.
            7.   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as
true and correct and applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
         (i)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
         (j)   The city's rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive
all formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may
be served.
   (E)   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchises.
Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution Sections
163 and 164. The city shall authorize franchises or renewals to any eligible
franchisee for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate, repair,
replace and maintain facilities in, through and along the city's rights-of-way
for the purposes of providing communications services on a nonexclusive basis
within the city, subject, however, to the standards, terms and conditions
herein set forth within this chapter, which shall be deemed incorporated
therein, and any special conditions as may be provided for in the franchise.
All franchisees shall be required to obtain and maintain any necessary and
lawful permit, license certification, grant, registration or any other
authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including, but
not limited to, the city, the FCC and the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
The city may establish standard franchises setting forth the minimum
requirements for all franchisees.
   (F)   Acceptance and effective date of franchise. Any franchise granted
hereunder, together with the rights, privileges and authority granted thereby,
shall take effect and be in force from and after the effective date of a
resolution granting a franchise hereunder, provided that on or before said date
franchisee shall:
      (1)   Enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by
the city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this section;
      (2)   File certificates of insurance as set forth in this chapter;
      (3)   File such bond or bonds as required in this chapter; and
      (4)   Advise the Mayor in writing of franchisee's address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
   (G)   Cable service and open video systems (OVS); separate franchise
required. A communications franchise shall not permit a franchisee to provide
cable services as a cable operator (as defined by 47 U.S.C. § 522(5)) within
the city. Upon a franchisee's request for a franchise to provide cable services
as a cable operator (as defined by 47 U.S.C. § 522(5)) within the city, the
city shall timely negotiate such cable franchise in good faith with the
franchisee. A communications franchise shall also not permit a franchisee to
operate an open video system. A person may operate an open video system only if
that person obtains a separate franchise permitting same, and such person
remits the maximum fees permitted by 47 U.S.C. § 573(c)(2)(B) and where such
person otherwise complies with FCC regulations promulgated pursuant to 47
U.S.C. § 573. Absent such applicable separate franchise from the city, a
franchisee shall be prohibited from offering OVS service and any such service
shall be considered a breach of its franchise.
   (H)   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee's use subordinate.
      (1)   A franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in
accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, including all
permit requirements, and fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances
in effect as of the date of the award of its franchise or thereafter adopted to
the extent not in contravention of state or federal law. The grant of a
franchise does not in any way affect the continuing authority of the city
through the proper exercise of its Home Rule or statutory powers to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
the public. The city makes no express or implied representation or warranty
regarding its rights to authorize the installation or construction of
facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way. The burden and
responsibility for making all such determinations in advance of construction or
installation shall be entirely upon the franchisee. The use of the rights-of-
way authorized by any franchise shall in all matters be subordinate to the
city's use and rights therein. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing:
         (a)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the
police powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations
to regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of franchisee's
system, including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce
additional ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the
exercise of its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable
zoning, building, permitting and safety ordinances and regulations, the right
to adopt and enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities and
the right to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations containing rights-of-
way, communications, and utility standards.
         (b)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers,
notwithstanding anything in this chapter and in any franchise to the contrary.
Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any
other present or future lawful exercise of the city's police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter.
         (c)   Franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions.
         (d)   If federal or state law alter the required services, fees,
costs, conditions or standards upon which the communications system is to
operate, the city shall have the right to amend this chapter to make it
consistent with the modified federal or state laws.
         (e)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject
to any present and future legislation or resolution, which may be enacted by
the city.
   (I)   Emergencies.
      (1)   Franchisee shall assign a management level person to coordinate
with, and assist the city's Emergency Management Agency, in the development of
emergency plans.
      (2)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgment of the city, to cut or move any
facilities, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby shall be made by franchisee, at its sole expense.
   (J)   Term. A franchise shall be effective for a term of ten years from its
effective date.
   (K)   Communications franchise fees. Franchisee shall pay to the city as
annual compensation for the use of the rights-of-way a communications franchise
fee equal to:
      (1)   $100.00 per antenna in the rights-of-way; plus
      (2)   A fee equal to the lesser of (i) $10,000.00, or (ii) the sum of the
following:
         (a)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or bundle of the same up to two inches in diameter placed above-
ground, $1.00 per foot of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it
is suspended; plus
         (b)   For each bundle of cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility greater than two inches in diameter placed above ground, $0.50 per
foot of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it is suspended; plus
         (c)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or aggregate of the same placed below-ground contemporaneously, $0.50
per foot of rights-of-way used to accommodate the same.
   (L)   Holders of multiple franchises. Persons holding a communications
franchise and also a cable franchise shall fairly and accurately apportion and
attribute revenues received to the various services offered.
   (M)   Timing of payment of communications franchise fees. Unless otherwise
agreed to in writing, all communications franchise fees shall be due and
payable on a quarterly basis and payment shall be made on or before the date
which is 30 calendar days after the last day of the calendar quarter for which
the payment applies (the "due date"); provided, however, that in the event that
a franchisee ceases to provide service for any reason (including as a result of
a transfer), such franchisee shall make a final payment of any amounts owed to
the city on or before the date which is 30 calendar days after the date on
which its operations in the city cease (which shall be deemed a "due date" for
purposes of this section).
   (N)   Interest on late payments and under payments. If any communications
franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not received by the city on or before
the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until received,
at the rate of 1.5% per month, unless such other maximum rate is established by
applicable law.
   (O)   Fee statement. Each communications franchise fee payment shall be
accompanied by a statement (a "fee statement") showing the manner in which the
communications franchise fee was calculated. Within 90 calendar days following
the end of the calendar year, each franchisee shall submit a statement,
certified as true, setting forth the amount of linear foot and antennae within
the facilities provided, however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to
provide service for any reason (including as a result of a transfer), such
franchisee shall provide such a statement within 30 calendar days after the
date on which its operations in the city cease.
   (P)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any
communications franchise fee or any other payment shall be construed as an
accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall acceptance
of any communications franchise fee or any other payment be construed as a
release of any claim of the city.
   (Q)   Description of service. During the term of the franchise, franchisee
shall provide the city with a description of any material changes to the types
of communications services offered within the city during the prior year. Any
individual service or item for which the franchisee has a separate charge shall
be considered a separate service.
   (R)   Communications franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes. The
communications franchise fee is compensation for the use of the rights-of-way
and shall in no way be deemed a tax of any kind. The communications franchise
fees required herein shall be in addition to, not in lieu of; all taxes,
charges, assessments, licenses, fees and impositions otherwise applicable that
are or may be imposed by the city. A franchisee shall be fully responsible for
the payment of all applicable taxes.
   (S)   Assignment of franchise. A franchisee shall provide the city with
written notice of any transfer of the franchise. A franchisee shall not sell,
assign, sublet, dispose of or otherwise transfer a franchise (or any of the
rights or privileges granted by such franchise) to another entity, without the
prior written consent of the city. The city's consent to such a transfer shall
not be withheld if the entity would have qualified for an original franchise
had it applied and if the entity demonstrates it has the same insurance
policies and bonds in place as is required of the original franchisee. Nothing
in any approval by the city of any transfer pursuant to this section shall be
construed to waive, release or delegate any rights or powers of the city to
hold the original franchisee liable for any violation of its franchise.
   (T)   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege. In case of failure on the part
of a franchisee, its successors and assigns, to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or its franchise, or if the franchisee, its
successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done any act or thing
prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the terms of its franchise,
the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall forfeit all rights and
privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise, and all rights
hereunder shall cease, terminate and become null and void, provided that said
forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry out the following
proceedings: Before the city declares the forfeiture or revocation of a
franchise, it shall first serve a written notice upon the franchisee, setting
forth in detail the neglect or failure complained of, and the company shall
have 30 days thereafter, or such other reasonable period established by the
city, in which to cure the default by complying with the conditions of its
franchise and fully remedying any default or violation. If at the end of such
30 day or other reasonable period, the city determines that the conditions have
not been complied with, the city shall take action by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the Council present at the meeting and voting, to terminate the
franchise, setting out the grounds upon which the franchise is to be forfeited
or revoked. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from invoking any other
remedy available at law or in equity.
   (U)   Security for payment of fees. Every franchisee shall provide to the
city an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $10,000.00 or one half of
the annual franchise fee owed, whichever is less, to secure the payment of the
communications franchise fee for the first two years of the franchise. After
which, if there has been no default in paying the franchise fee nor any late
payment of the franchise fee, the letter of credit shall be released.
   (V)   Special rules for governmental entities. Nothing herein requires the
city to apply the provisions of this chapter to a governmental entity if the
city determines that it is not in the public interest to do so, and nothing in
this chapter shall be read to require a governmental entity to comply with this
chapter where the city cannot enforce the chapter against such entity as a
matter of law. The city is authorized to enter into agreements with other
governmental agencies to facilitate the city's use and management of the
rights-of-way, and such agreements shall be enforceable according to their
respective terms and notwithstanding any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.03  RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Additional facilities requirements; planned infrastructure. When a
franchisee installs any new underground facilities, the franchisee shall,
unless waived by the city, simultaneously install conduit provided by the city
("the city conduit"). The city shall reimburse franchisee for any marginal or
additional costs incurred by franchisee in connection with installation of the
city conduit. The city conduit shall be installed in accordance with the city
specifications and consistent with sound engineering practice. No
communications franchise fee shall apply to any of the city conduit.
   (B)   Removal of facilities. Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by
lapse of time, by agreement between the franchisee and the city, or by
forfeiture thereof, the franchisee shall remove, at its sole cost, from the
rights-of-way any and all of its facilities that are the subject of such
franchise within a reasonable time after such expiration, not to exceed 90
days, and, it shall be the duty of the franchisee immediately upon such removal
to restore the rights-of-way from which the facilities are removed to as good
condition as the same were before the removal was effected and as required by
the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be
left in place when the city determines in its sole discretion that it is not
practical or desirable to require removal.
   (C)   Relocation of facilities. Whenever the city shall in its exercise of
the public interest request of the franchisee the relocation or reinstallation
of any of its facilities, the franchisee shall forthwith remove, relocate, or
reinstall any such property as may be reasonably necessary to meet the request
and the cost of such relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the facilities
shall be the exclusive obligation of such franchisee. A franchisee shall, upon
request of any other person requesting relocation of facilities and holding a
validly issued building or moving permit of the city, temporarily raise, lower,
or relocate its wires or other facilities as may be required for the person to
exercise the rights under the permit within 48 hours prior to the date upon
which said person intends to exercise its rights under said permit; provided,
however, that the franchisee may require such permit holder to make payment in
advance for any expenses incurred by said franchisee pursuant to such person's
request.
   (D)   Franchisee responsible for costs. A franchisee shall be responsible
for all reasonable costs incurred by the city that are directly associated with
the franchisee's erecting, installing, maintaining, operating, repairing,
replacing, removing or restoring its facilities in the rights-of-way. A
franchisee shall be responsible for its own costs incurred in removing or
relocating its facilities when required by the city due to the city
requirements relating to maintenance and use of the rights-of-way for the city
purposes.
   (E)   Insurance and bonds. During the term of any franchise, a franchisee
shall obtain and maintain at its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required
by this chapter. Nothing contained in this chapter shall limit a franchisee's
liability to the city to the limits of insurance certified or carried.
      (1)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their applications performance bonds with a surety
company or trust company or companies as surety or sureties solely for the
protection of the city in an amount determined by the city to be reasonable for
the proposed scope of the system to be constructed. The determination of the
amount of the performance bond required shall be made in a nondiscriminatory
manner. Said performance bond shall provide for the faithful performance of
construction and installation, of franchise's system. Two years after
demonstration of the completion of the construction of the system by franchisee
to the city, the city shall release the performance bond.
      (2)   Said performance bond shall indemnify the city in its own right and
as trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of franchisee
to faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the system in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The failure of franchisee to comply with its obligations under this
chapter or the franchise as determined by the city shall entitle the city to
draw against said performance bond.
      (4)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance
bonds required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the city,
whether reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such performance bond shall
affect any other rights the city may have.
      (5)   The performance bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be
materially altered without 30 days written notice and without securing and
delivering to the city a substitute, renewal and replacement bond in
conformance with this chapter. In the event the city does draw monies against
the performance bonds required hereunder, within ten days thereafter,
franchisee shall pay such funds to the bonding company as necessary to bring
said performance bonds back to the applicable principal, where it shall
continue to be maintained. The performance bonds required hereunder shall
contain the following endorsements:
"It is hereby understood and agreed that this performance bond may not be
reduced, altered or canceled by Franchisee or the bonding company without
thirty (30) days written notice by certified mail to the City."
      (6)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, franchisee shall file with the city the following
liability insurance policies issued by a company authorized to do business in
the Commonwealth:
         (a)   General liability: $1,000,000.00 each occurrence, $5,000,000.00
aggregate, against bodily injury, death, or property damage.
         (b)   Automobile insurance: $1,000,000.00 each occurrence, and
aggregate against bodily injury, death, or property damage for any of
franchisee's owned or leased motor vehicles used in the construction/
installation of any lines, facilities or equipment authorized by the franchise.
         (c)   Workers Compensation: The amount required by Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
      (7)   Franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certified copy of
the insurance policy(s) specifically endorsed to include all liability assumed
by franchisee hereunder and a certificate of insurance certifying the coverage
required under this chapter, which certificate shall be subject to the approval
of the city as to the adequacy of the certificate and of the insurance
certified under the requirements of this chapter. Such policy(s) and
certificate shall be identified on their face by the name of franchisee, and
shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as required under this
chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
      (8)   Franchisee shall maintain public liability, property damage and
other insurance required by this chapter that protects franchisee and the city,
its officers, agents, employees and appointed and elected officials from any
and all claims for damages or personal injury including death, demands,
actions, and suits brought against any of them arising from operations under
the franchise or in connection therewith. This insurance coverage constitutes a
minimum requirement and shall in no way be deemed to lessen, limit or define
the liability of franchisee, related entities, its successors or assigns, under
the terms of the franchise.
      (9)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time.
   (F)   Permits. Prior to performing any construction or installation work in
the public rights-of-way, franchisee shall apply to the city for a permit, and
shall include descriptive information about the specific location of any lines,
facilities, boxes, or related equipment. All terms and conditions of the permit
application shall apply and be adhered to.
      (1)   Franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done
within the public rights-of-way and provide other such information as required
by the city.
      (2)   Franchisee shall coordinate any construction work within the public
rights-of-way with the city and shall begin construction work only after
approval of the city.
      (3)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at
all times at the indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by
the city personnel.
   (G)   Notification. Franchisee shall notify the city, in writing, at least
15 days prior to construction. Such written notification shall contain the
location of the construction, the starting date and the estimated completion
date.
   (H)   Underground construction. Except as provided in division (I) below,
all of franchisee's facilities shall be installed underground and all street
crossings installation shall be made by trenchless technology.
      (1)   Franchisee shall register any and all underground line locations
with the local "Before You Dig" or "BUD" office for tracking specific
underground line locations.
      (2)   All backfilling and replacement of pavement shall be done by
franchisee:
         (a)   In accordance with the city requirements, and all restoration
work shall be completed to the same or better condition than found; and
         (b)   To the satisfaction of the city, and, if not acceptable, may be
completed by the city at franchisee's expense.
      (3)   At any time franchisee disturbs the yard, residence, or other real
or personal property in the city, franchisee shall ensure that the yard,
residence, or other personal property is returned, replaced, and/or restored to
a condition that is sufficiently comparable to the condition that existed prior
to the commencement of the work.
      (4)   The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement, and/or restoration shall be borne by franchisee.
   (I)   Aerial construction. Aerial construction of facilities must be
specifically authorized by the city prior to construction and located to
minimize interference with the other uses of the rights-of-way and other public
properties, and interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of
property owners whose property adjoins any of the rights-of-way and other
public properties. The decision to authorize above ground construction shall be
applied in a nondiscriminatory manner. If other franchisees have facilities
above ground and there is capacity available, above ground installations shall
be permitted until such time as all franchisees are required to relocate
underground. Aerial facilities shall be moved underground at franchisee's own
cost upon request from the city or when other users of the same rights-of-way
convert to underground facilities.
   (J)   Standards. Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter
shall be done in accordance with federal, state and local law, and the National
Electric Code.
      (1)   In the event that franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of said utility, and the granting of a
communications franchise, by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in
any way to alleviate franchisee's responsibilities and obligations to the pole
or conduit owner.
      (2)   Franchisee, its contractors, sub- subcontractors and anyone
directly or indirectly employed by franchisee, shall conduct such operations so
as to promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
      (3)   All construction, installation or maintenance by franchisee shall
be completed with diligence and with respect to all property, contracts,
persons, rights and the interests and rights of the public.
      (4)   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, and
repair of the system, franchisee shall use materials of good and durable
quality and all such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough, and reliable
manner.
   (K)   Traffic. Franchisee's work in the rights-of- way shall be accomplished
with a minimum of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic on the public rights- of-way or public land.
      (1)   Franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each
direction at all times during construction, installation or maintenance
activity.
      (2)   Traffic control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance or installation areas may be
prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
   (L)   Delay. The city required improvements to the city rights-of-way shall
not be delayed by work authorized by this chapter.
   (M)   Special exceptions. The city may grant a special exception to the
requirements of this chapter if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates
with written evidence that:
      (1)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health,
safety or welfare;
      (2)   Franchisee demonstrates that the increased economic burden and the
potential adverse impact on franchisee's construction schedule resulting from
the strict enforcement of the requirement actually or effectively prohibits the
ability of franchisee to provide communications services in the city; and
      (3)   Franchisee demonstrates that the requirement unreasonably
discriminates against franchisee in favor of another person.
      (4)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a non-discriminatory
manner.
   (N)   Inspections. All construction, installation and operation of
franchisee's system in the rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
   (O)   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation. In case the pavement or the
surface of the rights-of- way over any excavation should become depressed or
broken at any time within five years after the excavation has been completed
and before resurfacing of the rights-of-way, natural wear of the surface
excepted, franchisee shall, upon written notice from the city, immediately
proceed to inspect the depressed or broken area over the excavation to
ascertain the cause of the failure. Franchisee shall make repairs to the
installation or backfill and have the pavement restored as specified by the
city, within such time period as may be specified by the city. If the pavement
is not restored as specified by the city within the time period specified by
the city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions beyond franchisee’s
control, the city may cause the work to be done after giving franchisee 24
hours final notice. The cost thereof, including, but not limited to, any
inspection costs and administrative overhead incurred by the city, shall be
assessed against franchisee.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.04  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Administration of franchise. The city shall be responsible for the
continued administration of this chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
   (B)   Non-enforcement by the city. A franchisee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or its
applicable franchise by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt
compliance.
   (C)   Publication of notices. A franchisee shall be responsible for all
costs of publication that may be required with respect to its franchise or any
amendments or renewals thereto.
   (D)   Severability. If any material provision of this chapter or of any
franchise granted pursuant to it is held by a governmental authority of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable
laws now or hereafter in effect, or is held by a court or competent
governmental authority to be modified in any way in order to conform to the
requirements of any such applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a
separate, distinct, and independent part of this chapter or the franchise, and,
to the extent possible, such holding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of all other provisions herein or therein.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.05  PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application for license. A person wishing to erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore a private communications system in
the rights-of-way must obtain a license therefor from the city. Such license
shall only authorize placement of the private communications system in a
specific portion of the rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a
specific purpose in connection with the person's business and shall not permit
the provision of communications service to any other person. Such person shall
submit an application to the city on such form as may be developed by the city,
accompanied by such application fee as may be determined by the city.
   (B)   Conditions of license. Any license shall be subject to such conditions
as the city may from time to time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to
the use of the rights-of-way by the city and franchisees, and shall otherwise
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Compensation. A private communications system owner shall pay a fee
established by the city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of
the property used.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.06  LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied repeal or
amendment by this chapter of any other ordinance or part thereof shall not
affect any liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior
to the effective date of this chapter. Those liabilities and penalties are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
§ 117.07  REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights and remedies of the city and the franchisee as set forth in their
franchise, or in this chapter, shall be in addition to, and not in limitation
of, any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-8-05)
CHAPTER 118:  RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Registration of rental dwellings
   
118.03   Certification of rental dwelling required
   
118.04   Violations
   
118.05   Record keeping
   
118.06   Conflicts
§ 118.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT.  An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity, who represents the owner of a rental dwelling for
purposes of this chapter.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a short
term rental.
   OWNER.  An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation, or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY.  Any residential dwelling, which is in
whole or in part occupied by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or
written agreement for monetary or any other consideration, but which person(s)
is not acquiring an ownership interest in the dwelling. This shall include one-
family, two-family and multiple family dwellings, short term rentals. It does
not include dwellings that are occupied only by members of the owner's
immediate family, who do not pay rent.
   TENANT.  Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
§ 118.02  REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Registration required.  All owners of rental dwellings shall annually
register the rental property with the city on an application in a form provided
by the city. At the time an application is filed, a registration fee in an
amount established from time to time by resolution of the City Council shall be
paid in full.
   (B)   Annual registration.  The annual registration date shall be January 1
of each year.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings.  The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy. If indicated in the resolution
establishing the registration fee, the fee may be prorated for a registration
of less than one year. Otherwise, the established fee shall be due.
   (D)   Change in registration information.  The owner of a rental dwelling(s)
already registered with the city shall re-register within 60 days after any
change occurs in registration information. At the time an application to re-
register is filed, a registration fee in an amount established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council shall be paid in full.
   (E)   New ownership of registered rental dwelling.  A new owner of a
registered rental dwelling shall re-register the dwelling within 60 days of
assuming ownership. At the time application to re-register is filed, a
registration fee in an amount established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council shall be paid in full.
   (F)   Registration of rental dwellings.  Application for registration or re-
registration shall be made in accordance with such instructions as may be
provided with the registration application, which shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling.
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units. If the premises also provides
for temporary dwelling, the application shall also state the number of
temporary dwelling units in the premises for the purposes of distinguishing
them from the rental dwelling units.
      (3)   The name, residence address, business address, business phone
number and personal phone number of the owner and/or the local agent, if
applicable.
      (4)   The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable,
will accept notices or orders from the city.
      (5)   Verification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed
against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing
of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in
the denial of an application for registration or re-registration under this
section.
   (G)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information.  It shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (H)   Designation of local agent.  If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling in compliance with this
chapter, this code of ordinances, and other applicable laws or regulations. All
official notices may be served on the responsible local agent, and any notice
so served shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of record.
   (I)   More than one owner or ownership entity.  Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. If those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
§ 118.03  CERTIFICATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS REQUIRED.
   Rental dwellings shall not be occupied without a valid certificate of
compliance or a valid temporary certificate of compliance.
   (A)   Validity of certificate of compliance.  A certificate of compliance
shall be valid for five years for all rental dwellings, unless suspended or
revoked as set forth below.
   (B)   Expiration of certificate of compliance.  Certificates of compliance
may not be extended beyond their expiration dates except as may be permitted in
division (A) above.
   (C)   Revocation.  A certificate of compliance may be revoked subsequent to
its issuance by the building inspector upon findings that a rental dwelling
fails to comply with this chapter and/or for repeated violations of the code of
ordinances or other applicable laws and regulations.
   (D)   Appeal.  Any person aggrieved by certificate revocation under division
(C) above may appeal such action to the City Council. Enforcement of such
revocation shall be stayed while the appeal is pending before the Council.
   (E)   Transfer prohibited.  No certificate issued under this chapter shall
be transferred without the written consent of the city.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
§ 118.04  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Additional penalty.  In addition to the penalties provided in this
chapter, any owner, local agent, tenant or occupant may be cited for other acts
or omissions that violate this code of ordinances or state law.
   (B)   Deficiencies or violations.  If an inspection reveals that the rental
dwelling is not in compliance with the city's property maintenance code, fire
code, zoning ordinance, this chapter, or other applicable laws or regulations,
the owner shall be provided a written list of deficiencies or violations that
must be corrected before a certificate is issued. If the city determines that
the deficiencies or violations do not render the rental unit uninhabitable, the
city may issue a temporary certificate of compliance for that rental dwelling.
   (C)   A violation basis.  If the city has reasonable cause to believe a
rental dwelling is in violation of city ordinance or applicable law or
regulation, the rental dwelling will be inspected within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
§ 118.05  RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Occupant information.  For all short term rentals, the owner or, if
one is required, the local agent shall obtain and maintain for the purpose of
city inspection and coping the name, address, and other contact information of
each occupant.
   (B)   Occupant acknowledgment.  For all short term rentals, the owner or, if
one is required, the local agent shall obtain and maintain for the purpose of
city inspection and copying a document signed by the person responsible for
renting the rental dwelling acknowledging the occupancy limit of the rental
property, certifying the number of persons who will be occupying the rental
property and acknowledging city ordinances applicable to the rental property.
   (C)   Tenant acknowledgment.  Each tenant of a rental dwelling shall sign a
document acknowledging the occupancy limit and city regulations applicable to
the rental property, which document shall be maintained by the owner or, if one
is required, the local agent for inspection and copying by the city.
   (D)   Occupant or tenant update.  The information required under this
section shall be updated by the owner or, if one is required, the local agent
for each rental is different tenants or occupants.
   (E)   Checklist.  Between each rental to different tenants or occupants, the
owner or, if one is required, the local agent shall inspect the premises using
a city-designated checklist to ensure that all smoke detectors, lights, doors,
locks, windows, screens, plumbing, appliances, heating, ventilation and air
conditioning units, railings, ceiling fans, telephones, televisions, and other
electronic devices, and furnishings are in a safe and working condition. Upon
inspection, the owner or, if one is required, the local agent shall sign and
date the checklist and shall maintain it for city inspection and copying.
   (F)   Record maintenance.  The owner or, if one is required, the local agent
shall maintain such documents and any other records required under this article
for at least two years. An owner or local agent shall convey such documents to
any successor owner or local agent.
   (G)   Display of certificate, placard.  Each rental dwelling shall
prominently display a full-size copy of the certificate of compliance or the
temporary certificate of compliance inside the rental property together with a
placard which includes applicable occupancy limitations, emergency service
contact information, the address of the rental dwelling and a fire escape plan.
   (H)   Roadway access.  Each rental dwelling shall have independent access to
the adjacent roadway which shall not include shared-driveway access. The
requirements of this division may be waived at the discretion of the building
inspector upon a showing of undue hardship.
   (I)   Noise.  Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the
city to prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
§ 118.06  CONFLICTS.
   In the event that the provisions of this chapter conflict with any other
provision within this code of ordinances, the provision that is more
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 8-8-11)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of deadly weapons
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   There is hereby prohibited the discharge of any deadly weapon in the city. 
A DEADLY WEAPON shall be construed to include any firearm, pellet gun, bow and
arrow, or any other deadly weapon as defined in the penal sections of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 91-14, passed 11-4-91)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIGNS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of the Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Permits and letters of compliance
   
150.03   Building restrictions
   
150.04   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalties
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF THE KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes and the Kentucky Administrative regulations, together with all
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in
this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The application of the Kentucky Building Code and the following
additions and amendments that the city does hereby incorporate in this chapter
shall be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed 11-12-01)
§ 150.02  PERMITS AND LETTERS OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any permits, certificates of use and occupancy or other special
permits or certificates shall be issued by Jefferson County, or the appropriate
state officials, after receipt by the appropriate issuing agency of a Letter of
Compliance from the city. The cost for reviewing such applications and issuing
a Letter of Compliance (not to include a sign permit handled specifically in
Chapter 151) shall be $50, which must be paid contemporaneous with the
application thereof.
   (B)   All plans and specifications required to be submitted for the issuance
of any permit, certificate of use or occupancy, or other special permit shall
additionally be submitted to the city along with a written request for the
issuance of a Letter of Compliance. After an application for a Letter of
Compliance has been filed in accordance with this section, the city shall
examine or cause to be examined all applications for permits, plans,
specifications, plot diagrams and other materials within a reasonable time
after filing. If the application or other materials do not conform to the
requirements of all pertinent laws and this chapter, the city may reject the
application in writing to the applicant stating the reasons therefore. If the
city is satisfied that the application and other material conform to the
requirements of all pertinent laws and regulations, including this chapter, the
city shall issue a Letter of Compliance as soon as is practicable.
   (C)   Letters of Compliance from the city are effective for one year from
the date of their issuance and thereafter expire.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 2003-06, passed 9-8-03)
§ 150.03  BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to create design guidelines and, as
such, supplement the regulations of Jefferson County and Kentucky state laws or
regulations.
   (B)   The legal use and occupancy of any structure existing on the effective
date of this chapter or for which it has been heretofore approved, may be
continued without change. However, a pre-existing use may not be substantially
changed without compliance with these restrictions.
   (C)   The following restrictions apply to all lots within the city:
      (1)   All new driveways and/or off-street parking areas constructed or
enlarged after the effective date of this chapter for new or existing buildings
or structures shall be made of poured concrete and shall have a minimum width
of nine feet.
      (2)   All driveways and off-street parking areas existing before the
effective date of this chapter may be resurfaced with Portland cement, concrete
or asphalt, complying with state specifications for primary highway
construction.
      (3)   The uses permitted in the residential districts in the city shall
be limited to those allowed in the Land Development Code. No other uses shall
be permitted.
      (4)    No trailer coach or mobile home, basement, tent, shack, garage or
detached building shall be used as a temporary or permanent family residence.
      (5)   No building or property shall be used as a stable, dog kennel or
shelter for animals, provided that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent
the keeping indoors of ordinary house pets.
      (6)   No building or property shall be used for any noxious or offensive
trade of activity nor shall anything be done which may be an annoyance or
nuisance to the neighborhood or any adjoining land owner.
      (7)   Front or street side yards shall not be used to park campers,
trailers, boats or similar vehicles. They shall also not be used to park a
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5,000 pounds for a period
exceeding 16 hours.
      (8)   Garages and accessory buildings and structures must comply with the
Land Development Code.
      (9)   The minimum yards requirement shall be those that are set out in
the regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission. The
minimum ground floor area shall be that required in the regulations of the
Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission.
      (10)   All main buildings shall conform to the general style of
architecture in improvements already in existence in the city. The exterior
surfaces of all buildings shall be constructed of brick or stone or both.
Decorative trim not exceeding 20% of the total exterior surface may be
constructed from other materials. Except when used as decorative trim, stucco,
concrete blocks, aluminum, wood and any other materials other than brick or
stone shall not be used for exterior surfaces.
      (11)   The exterior surfaces of attached or semi-attached garages shall
conform to division (10). Detached garages shall be of brick or stone on front
and can use masonry units on all other sides. Accessory buildings are exempt
from the requirement of divisions (10) and (11).
      (12)   A fence shall not extend beyond the front building line into a
front yard nor beyond a street-side building line into a street-side yard. A
fence shall not stand more than 48 inches in height. All fences must be of
ornamental design and conform to the general style of fences in the
neighborhood.
      (13)   When a lot is developed on a street where a sidewalk is already
established, a sidewalk of the same design and composition shall be constructed
across the entire frontage of the lot at the owner’s cost.
      (14)   All new sanitary facilities shall empty into the public sanitary
sewer system. No septic tanks or other sewage disposal systems shall be
installed.
      (15)   All vehicles must be parked on a hard surface of either concrete
or asphalt. Paved areas for vehicles shall be restricted to one side yard, 30%
of the rear yard and that portion of the front yard adjacent to that side line
and its maximum width shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the side
lot line and the side of the main building. When paved areas for vehicles
project off a side street, the paved area shall be limited to 30% of the rear
yard and a space of 24 feet wide for yard and parking area.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 2012-3, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 2014-
4, passed 9-8-14)
§ 150.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to ensure compliance with
its code of ordinances  as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed 11-12-01)
§ 150.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues and a separate penalty may be imposed therefore.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this section, with a minimum civil penalty of $50
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation.
      (3)   As used herein "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed 11-12-01)
CHAPTER 151:  SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Precedence of county, state and federal law
   
151.04   Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
151.05   Existing signs
Permits
   
151.15   Permit required
   
151.16   Registration and fees
   
151.17   Bonds
   
151.18   Revocation of permit
   
151.19   Exemptions
Rules and Regulations
   
151.30   Design loads
   
151.31   Illumination; electrical wiring; flashing lights
   
151.32   Size and height
   
151.33   Signs to be immobile; of permanent construction
   
151.34   Number of signs permitted
   
151.35   Billboards and pole signs prohibited
   
151.36   Portable signs prohibited
   
151.37   Ground sign set back regulations
   
151.38   Marquee signs
   
151.39   Projecting signs
   
151.40   Temporary and future development signs
   
151.41   Wall signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.50   Maintenance and inspection
   
151.51   Variance
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the appearance, construction,
alteration, repair and maintenance of all signs together with their appurtenant
and auxiliary devices in respect to aesthetics as well as structural and fire
safety.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA.  For ground signs, encompasses the extremities of the sign within the
smallest possible area using eight or fewer straight lines.  For all other
signs, encompasses the extremities of the sign within the smallest possible
area using four or fewer straight lines.
   PUBLIC WAY.  Any street, highway, road, alley, right-of-way, easement or
publicly maintained sidewalk or pedestrian walkway.
   SIGN.  Any display to public view of letters, words, numerals, figures,
statues, devices, emblems, pictures, clocks, or any combination thereof that
are painted, printed, stamped, raised, or in any manner outlined or attached,
designed to inform or advertise or draw attention to or promote merchandise,
services,  or activities.  Types of non-exempt signs include the following:
      (1)   BILLBOARD and POLE SIGNS.  Any exterior sign supported by an
upright(s), pole(s), or column(s) with a ground clearance of not less than nine
feet.
      (2)   GROUND SIGNS.  Any exterior sign supported by an upright(s), pole
(s), or column(s) with a ground clearance of not more than nine feet.
      (3)   FUTURE DEVELOPMENT SIGNS.  Signs constructed for the purpose of
advertising a forthcoming development, business or intended use of the
property.
      (4)   MARQUEE SIGNS.  Any exterior sign attached to or hung from a
marquee canopy or other covered structure projecting from or adjacent to a
building and extending beyond the building surface.
      (5)   PORTABLE SIGNS.  Any exterior sign which is located on a trailer or
other vehicle or includes wheels or is designed to be readily movable from one
location to another.
      (6)   PROJECTING SIGNS.  Any sign which is attached to a building
exterior and which extends more than 12 inches from the face of the building
surface.
      (7)   TEMPORARY SIGNS.  Any exterior sign constructed of cloth, canvas,
fabric or other light temporary material, with or without a structural frame,
intended for a limited period of display, which period is not to run in excess
of seven days, including decorative displays for holidays or public
demonstrations.
      (8)   WALL SIGNS.  Any sign adhered to the exterior face of a building
wall, glazed window, panel or door extending not more than 12 inches from the
building surface.  Any sign visible from the exterior through a glazed window,
panel or door comprising more than 25% of the area of that single piece of
glass as viewed from the exterior and located within six feet of that glazed
window panel or door.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.03  PRECEDENCE OF COUNTY, STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   Where more restrictive in respect to location, form, use, size or height of
signs, the limitations of county, state and federal laws affecting signs shall
take precedence over the regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.04  UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   Notice of unsafe signs.  When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of
falling, or otherwise unsafe, or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed,
erected or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the owner thereof, or the person or firm maintaining same, shall, upon written
notice of the Building Official, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and
in any case within not more than ten days, make such sign conform to the
provisions of this chapter or shall remove it.  If within ten days the order is
not complied with the Building official may remove such sign at the expense of
the owner or lessee thereof, or the person or firm maintaining same where such
notification has been made upon the latter.
   (B)   Unlawful signs.  Should any sign be installed, erected or maintained
in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, the Building Official may
notify, by certified mail or by personal service, the owner or lessee of the
premises or the person or firm maintaining the said sign to alter such signs so
as to comply with this chapter and secure the necessary permit therefor, or to
remove the same.  If such order is not complied with within ten days after such
notice, the Building Official may remove such sign at the expense of the owner
or the lessee of the premises, or, if such owner or lessee cannot be located,
then at the expense of the person or firm maintaining the said sign.
   (C)   Signs constituting traffic hazard.  No sign or other advertising
structure as regulated by this chapter shall be erected in a public way, at the
intersection of any streets in a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision;
or at any location where, by reason of its position, shape or operation, it may
interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.  Further, no signs shall make use of any word,
phrase, symbol or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse traffic.  Any sign or advertising structure violating this section
shall be deemed to be unlawful.
   (D)   Reflective signs.  No reflectors or reflective material shall be used
on any sign.
   (E)   Irritating colors in signs.  No luminous or iridescent colors are to
be used on any sign.
   (F)   Obstructions to exitways.  No sign shall be erected, constructed or
maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, required exitway, window or door
opening used as an element of a means of egress or to prevent free passage from
one part of a roof to another part thereof or access thereto by firefighting
forces.
   (G)   Obstruction of ventilation.  No signs shall be attached in any form,
shape or manner which will interfere with any opening required for ventilation;
except that such signs may be erected in front of and may cover transom windows
when not in violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other related
building legislation in force in the city.
   (H)   Types.  All signs shall be as defined or identified in §§
151.02 and
151.19.  Any sign not thus defined or described shall be considered unlawful.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05  EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Reconstructing Signs.
      (1)   No sign heretofore approved and erected shall be substantially
repaired, altered or moved, nor shall any sign, or any substantial part
thereof, which is blown down or destroyed, be re- erected, reconstructed or
rebuilt unless it is made to comply with all applicable requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SUBSTANTIAL REPAIR shall refer to:
         (a)   Any change in copy face not designed to bring the existing sign
within compliance with this chapter; or
         (b)   Actual repairs made (not designed to bring the sign within
compliance), the test being the actual cost of any such repair.  Such cost of
repair, if in excess of 25% of the original cost of the sign, shall be
sufficient for the purpose of this chapter to qualify same as a SUBSTANTIAL
REPAIR.
      (3)   Any sign in existence at the time of the enactment of this chapter
and for which a proper permit has been granted by the city, which permit shall
not have been revoked at the time of the passage of this chapter, shall be
allowed to remain in its present form.
   (B)   Repair of unsafe signs.  This section shall not be construed to
prevent the repair or restoration to a safe condition as directed by the
Building Official of any non-substantial part of an existing sign when damaged
by storm or other accidental emergency.
   (C)   Relocating signs.  Any sign that is moved to another location either
on the same or to other premises shall be considered a new sign and a permit
shall be secured for any work performed in connection therewith when required
by this chapter.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
PERMITS
§ 151.15  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   New signs.  No signs shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered
or maintained except as herein provided and until after a permit has been
issued by the Building Official and the required bond has been filed.
   (B)   Alterations.  No signs shall be enlarged or relocated except in
conformity to the provisions of this chapter for new signs, not until a proper
permit has been secured.  The changing of movable parts of a prior approved
sign that is designed for such changes, or the repainting or reposting of
display matter shall not be deemed an alteration provided the conditions of the
original approval and the requirements of this chapter are not violated.
   (C)   Penalty fee.  A penalty fee shall be assessed for starting work
without a permit. The penalty fee shall be the same amount as the standard fee,
but not less than $100. The penalty fee shall be paid in addition to the
standard fee. In cases where a permit fee was legally waived or exempt, the
penalty fee shall be assessed upon the above criteria as if the standard fee
has been assessed.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16  REGISTRATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Registration.  Every sign, unless otherwise exempt by operation of
this chapter, shall be registered with the Building Official by the person
maintaining the same.  A permit must be obtained from the City Building
Official to erect a sign of non- exempt status.  No permit shall be granted
until an application has been filed with the Building Official showing the
plans and specifications, including dimensions, materials and details of
construction for the proposed sign, nor until all the provisions of this
chapter relating to such a sign shall have complied with, nor until the
prescribed fees have been paid for such permit.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   The fee for such permits shall be $175 for a sign permit
application which contains one sign. An additional $50 will be charged for each
additional sign on the application.
      (2)   For any sign having an area in excess of 25 square feet there shall
be an additional fee of $10 per each square foot of additional area.
      (3)   Double-faced signs shall be considered two separate signs at the
same location for the purpose of assessing permit fees only.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91; Am. Ord. 2003-03, passed 3-10-03)
§ 151.17  BONDS.
   No person shall erect, install, remove or refinish any sign for which a
permit is required under this chapter until an approved performance bond
equaling 10% of the total value of the sign has been filed with the Building
Official.  Such bond shall be refunded after construction and inspection by the
Building Official.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits shall be revocable for cause at any time by the Building
Official with the advice and consent of the City Commission.  Any signs erected
under such revoked permit shall be removed within ten days by the owner at the
owner's expense without claim against the city for damage or cost.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.19  EXEMPTIONS.
   No permit shall be required for exempted signs.  Such exceptions, however,
shall not be construed to relieve the owner of the sign from responsibility for
its erection and maintenance in a safe manner.  Exempted signs include the
following:
   (A)   Indoor signs. 
      (1)   Indoor signs not visible from the exterior. 
      (2)   Any signs visible from the exterior through a glazed window, panel
or door comprising of less than 25% of the area of that single piece of glass
as viewed from the exterior. 
      (3)   Any signs visible from the exterior through a glazed window, panel
or door comprising of more or less than 25% of the area of that single piece of
glass as viewed from the exterior and located more than six feet from that
glass.
   (B)   Store signs.  Non-illuminated signs not exceeding one square foot in
area, erected over a show window or over or beside the door of a store or
business establishment which announce only and without elaboration the name of
the proprietor and the nature of the business conducted therein.
   (C)   Sale or rent signs.  Signs erected to announce the sale or rent of
commercial property, provided such signs are not over four feet in height and
32 feet in area and when supported by upright(s), pole(s), or column(s) have a
height above the ground of less than six feet.  Signs erected to announce the
sale of residential property, provided such signs are not over three feet in
height and 12 feet in area and when supported by upright(s), pole(s), or column
(s) have a height above the ground in excess of five feet.  Such signs must be
removed within two weeks following the “close” of the transaction to which the
same applied.  “Sold” signs may be affixed to an earlier erected “Sale” sign
after the close of the sale, but shall also be removed within two weeks from
the closing date.  No such sign may be affixed or anchored in any manner to any
pole, post or other fixture owned or maintained by any governmental agency or
public utility company.
   (D)   Transit directions.  The erection and maintenance of a sign
designating the location of a transit line, railroad station, or other public
carrier when not more than three square feet in area.
   (E)   Government body signs.  Signs erected by the city, the county, the
state, or public utility, for the health, safety, welfare, or convenience of
the public.
   (F)   Construction signs. 
      (1)   One or more signs identifying persons or business firms (including
architects and engineers) engaged in the construction of a building on site,
are allowed, provided that each sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in area or
five feet above ground in height. There shall be no more than one such sign per
person or firm.
      (2)   In the alternative, one sign identifying all persons or business
firms engaged in construction of a building on site is allowed, provided the
sign shall not exceed 30 square feet in area or eight feet above ground in
height.
      (3)   Such signs may be erected only when construction of the project
begins.  Such signs shall be removed within ten days of the completion of the
project to which such signs refer.  For the purpose of this section, COMPLETION
means a sufficient degree of completion which would enable the occupier or user
of the completed project to commence occupancy or use of same.
   (G)   Special displays.  Special decorative displays, used for holidays,
public demonstrations, or promotion of civic welfare or charitable purposes,
when authorized by the City Commission on which there is no commercial
advertising, provided the city is held harmless for any damage resulting
therefrom.
   (H)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political campaign signs are not to exceed 32 square feet in area
and are to be removed by person or organization placing such sign within one
week following the election to which they apply.
      (2)   No such sign, when supported by an upright(s), pole(s) or column(s)
may have a height above the ground in excess of six feet.
   (I)   Signs upon a vehicle.  Provided that any such vehicle with a sign face
of over two square feet is not conspicuously parked so as to constitute a sign;
nothing herein prevents such a vehicle from being used for bona fide delivery
and other vehicular purposes.
   (J)   Numerals.  Displayed on and denoting the address of a building or
property which are not part of an otherwise existing attached or freestanding
sign.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.30  DESIGN LOADS.
   The effect of special local wind pressures shall be thoroughly considered in
the design; but in no case shall the wind load be assumed less than 30 pounds
per square foot of net exposed area for ground signs.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31  ILLUMINATION; ELECTRICAL WIRING; FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical devices and
wiring shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the National
Electrical Code.  In no case shall any open spark or flame be used for display
purposes unless specifically approved by the Building Official.
   (B)   Signs coming within the operation of this chapter may have exterior
illumination or internal illumination.  Where internal illumination is used,
the affective intensity of same shall not exceed 15 watts per square foot.
   (C)   There shall be no flashing lights on any sign. For the purpose of this
section, FLASHING LIGHTS shall mean lights that either go on and off or which
increase and decrease in intensity at regular or irregular intervals.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32  SIZE AND HEIGHT.
   The area of any sign shall not exceed 50 square feet per sign.  No sign
shall exceed 30 feet above ground grade.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33  SIGNS TO BE IMMOBILE; OF PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION.
   All signs, except those coming under the classification of temporary signs
shall be immobile and of permanent construction.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.34  NUMBER OF SIGNS PERMITTED.
   Each free-standing building is permitted to have one ground sign, or one
marquee sign, or one projecting sign, (each of which may be double-faced) or
one wall sign.  Additionally, each business located within that building is
permitted to have one projecting sign, or one marquee sign, (each of which may
be double-faced) or one wall sign.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.35  BILLBOARDS AND POLE SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no billboards or pole signs.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.36  PORTABLE SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no portable signs.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.37  GROUND SIGN SET BACK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No ground sign shall be set nearer to the property line than two feet.
   (B)   No ground sign shall be set nearer to any area receiving motor vehicle
traffic (parking lots, alleys, drives than two feet.
   (C)   No ground sign exceeding six feet above the ground shall be located
within 50 feet of the right- of-way of Hurstbourne Lane, Bunsen Way or
Taylorsville Road.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.38  MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   Height.  No such sign shall be less than eight feet above the level of
the sidewalk at any level, nor shall the sign have a vertical width greater
than four feet.
   (B)   Length.  Marquee signs may extend the full width of the marquee, but
in no case shall they project beyond the perimeter of the marquee.  No such
sign may extend within two feet of any area receiving motor vehicle traffic
(parking lots, alleys, drives).
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.39  PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Maximum Protection.  No such sign may project more than 12 inches over
the public way unless it be an electric sign.  For the purpose of this chapter
ELECTRIC SIGN is a sign illuminated by electric lights.  Both sides of electric
projecting signs shall be illuminated to the extent of a minimum of five watts
per square foot.
   (B)   No projecting sign shall be more than four feet in height or vertical
width at any section, nor shall such sign project more than nine feet beyond
the building or marquee to which it is attached; and in no event shall such
sign extend to a point less than two feet from any area receiving motor vehicle
traffic (parking lots, alleys, drives).  A clear space of not less than ten
feet shall be provided below all parts of such signs.  No projecting sign shall
be closer than ten inches to the building to which it is attached, except when
designed and built as an integral part of a building.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40  TEMPORARY AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT SIGNS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements for all signs as  indicated in §§
151.30 through
151.34, all  temporary and future development signs must receive a variance as
indicated in §
151.51.
   (B)   Signs will be removed upon substantial completion of the project,
occupancy, or if building construction, exclusive of site work, is not
commenced within 12 months of application for a sign permit.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41  WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   No such sign shall be erected to extend beyond the perimeter of the
wall on which it is mounted.
   (B)   No wall sign shall extend into the public way more than eight inches. 
No sign projected into the public way may, at its lowest point, be less than
nine feet above the level of the public way.  However, if the sign is
illuminated, the lighting apparatus may project six feet over the public way,
but in no case shall they be nearer than two feet to any area receiving motor
vehicle traffic (parking lots, alleys, drives).  Such wall signs must be safely
and adequately attached to the building to which they are secured.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91) Penalty, see §
151.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.50  MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Maintenance.  All signs for which a permit is required, together with
all their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and when not galvanized or
constructed of approved corrosion-resistive noncombustible materials shall be
painted when necessary to prevent corrosion.
   (B)   Housekeeping.  It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner or
lessee of every sign to maintain the immediate premises occupied by the sign in
a clean, sanitary and healthful condition.  Any person, firm or corporation
occupying any vacant lot or premises with a ground sign shall be charged with
the keeping of same clean, sanitary, inoffensive and free and clear of all
noxious substance in the vicinity of such ground sign.
   (C)   Inspection.  Every sign for which a permit has been issued and every
existing sign for which a permit is required, shall be inspected at least once
every calendar year. “Exempted” signs may be inspected at the discretion of the
Building Official to insure their entitlement of such status.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 12-27-91)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.51  VARIANCE.
   Variances to the requirements of this chapter may be granted by the City
Commission upon a majority vote at a regular meeting, only upon application by
the affected property owner and upon a finding by the City Commission of the
following:
   (A)   The specific conditions in detail which are unique to the applicants
land and do not exist on other land within the city.
   (B)   The manner in which the strict application of the provisions of the
chapter would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land in the
manner equivalent to the use permitted other land owners within the city and
within the same zoning classification.
   (C)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of the
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of this sign chapter.
   (D)   Reasons that the variance will preserve, not harm, public safety and
welfare and will not alter the essential character of the city.
(91-15, passed 12-27-91)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms or
provisions of this chapter and any person, firm or corporation failing to
conform to any of the provisions of this chapter, or failing to obey any order
of the Building Official of the city, issued in pursuance of this chapter,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $500.  Where such violation is of a
continuing nature, each day such person, firm or corporation violates any such
provision, or  fails  to  conform  to  any of the  provisions of this chapter
or any such order of the City Building Official, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 12-27-91)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
89-2     6-6-89 Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the
                center of the Old Taylorsville Road, North 35 degrees.
               
 
TABLE II:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date Description
No.
     8-1- Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance; authorizing the
89-7 89   execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to Establish the Kentucky
          Municipal Risk Management Association”
          Approving participation in the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association
          (KMRA) general insurance trust; approving the purchase through the KMRMA
89-8 8-1- general insurance trust of such liability and property damage insurance
     89   coverages as shall be determined advisable; and authorizing the Mayor to
          execute a binding trust participation agreement between the city and the
          KMRMA.
         
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Granting to Storer Communications of Jefferson County, Inc. a
80-5     7-1-80   non-exclusive franchise to construct, operate and maintain a
                  community antennae television system within the city for a
                  period of 15 years.
                  Approving the renewal and amendment of the franchise
95-9     12-22-95 agreement for Community Antenna Television (CATV) Services of
                  TCI TKR of Jefferson County.
                  Granting to Google Fiber Kentucky, LLC, a non-exclusive
                  franchise to erect, install or maintain communications
16-03    6-13-16  facilities, or to provide communication services by the use
                  of these communication facilities, within the city limits for
                  a period of 20 years.
                 
 
TABLE IV:  STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
                Closing the portion of Mahan Avenue beginning at a point in the
87-6     9-1-87 west line of Mahan Avenue at its intersection with the north
                line of Axminster Drive as shown on the plat of Regent Park
                subdivision.
               
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1981 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section        Code Section
6.050              32.47
6.955 - 6.975      33.03
Chapter 13A        93.02
16.220             72.22
18A.225(2)         113.03
18A.228            113.03
41.240(4)          33.04
42.450 - 42.495    33.03
43.050             33.03
Chapter 45A        34.26
Chapter 56         34.26
61.810             38.61
61.870 et seq.     117.01
61.870 - 61.882    31.36
61.870 - 61.884    34.27
61.870             34.01
61.870(1)          34.01
61.872 -61.884     38.20,
                   38.65
61.872(1)          34.15
61.872(2)          34.15
61.872(4)          34.16,
                   34.17
61.872(5)          34.18
61.874(1)          34.15
61.874(1) - (3)    34.22
61.874(3), (4)     34.23
61.874(5)          34.24
61.874(6)          34.25
61.878             34.01,
                   34.26
61.878(1)          34.26
61.880             34.19
61.880(1)          34.26
61.884             34.21
62.060             31.01
65.003             38.02
65.120             71.99
82.082             38.02
Chapter 83A        31.20
83A.010(3)         10.02
83A.010(6)         10.02
83A.010(7)         10.02
83A.030(2)         30.02
83A.040(1)         31.21
83A.040(2)         31.21
83A.040(3)         31.21
83A.040(4)         32.01
83A.040(5)         32.02
83A.040(6)         31.21,
                   32.02
83A.040(7)         31.21,
                   32.02
83A.040(8)         31.21,
                   32.02
83A.040(9)         31.04
83A.045(2)(b)      31.20
83A.060            38.69
83A.060(1)         32.36
83A.060(2)         32.36
83A.060(3)         32.37
83A.060(4)         32.38
83A.060(5)         32.40
83A.060(6)         32.22
83A.060(7)         32.38
83A.060(8)         32.40,
                   32.41
83A.060(9)         32.42
83A.060(10)        32.43
83A.060(11)        32.44
83A.060(12)        32.45
83A.060(13)        32.45
83A.060(14)        32.46
83A.060(15)        32.47
83A.065            116.04,
                   150.04
83A.070            31.02
83A.075            31.02,
                   31.03
83A.080            38.03
83A.080(1)         31.35
83A.080(2)         31.04,
                   31.35
83A.080(3)         31.35
83A.085            31.36
83A.090            32.04
83A.130            31.21
83A.140            10.19
83A.140(1)         30.01
83A.140(2)         30.02
83A.140(3)         32.03
83A.140(4)         31.21,
                   32.20
83A.140(5)         32.03
83A.140(7)         32.21
83A.140(8)         32.03
83A.175            32.02
91A.010            33.01
91A.010(7)         10.02
91A.020            33.02
91A.030            33.30
91A.040            33.03
91A.050            33.03
91A.060            33.04
91A.200            33.11
91A.210            33.10
91A.220            33.11
91A.230            33.12
91A.240            33.13
91A.250            33.14
91A.260            33.15
91A.270            33.16
91A.280            33.17
91A.290            33.18
92.637             35.11
92.650             35.10
Chapter 107        33.11
Chapters 116 - 121 31.20
Chapter 118        31.20
131.010(6)         113.04
132.285            35.06
132.487            35.12
134.420            35.10,
                   35.11
Ch. 154            34.26
174.100            91.15
174.100(1)         91.16
174.100(2)         91.17
174.100(3)         91.17
174.100(4)         91.18
174.100(5)         91.20
174.100(6)         91.20
174.100(7)         91.20
186.020            72.22
186A.190           72.22
Chapter 189        70.17,
                   74.01
189.285            73.02
189.287            73.01
189.290            71.25
189.330(8)         71.02
189.338            70.15
189.394            71.99
189.450(5)         72.03
189.450(6)         72.03
189.580            71.15
189.725            72.08
189.930            71.26
189.990(1)         72.99
189.990(2)         74.99
189.993(8)         71.99
226.010            112.01
226.020            112.02
226.030            112.07
226.040            112.03
226.050            112.04
226.070            112.03
226.080            112.05
226.090            112.06
226.100            112.08
227.700 - 227.750  93.06
227.700            93.01
227.702            93.01
227.702(1)         93.03
227.704            93.01
227.706            93.01
227.708            93.01
227.710            93.02
227.715            93.02,
                   93.03
227.720            93.04
227.730            93.05
227.750            93.06
257.100            90.06
257.100(4)         90.01
Chapter 281        72.21
281.605(12)        72.22
376.275(1), (2)    72.21
376.275(3) - (6)   72.22
                   32.42,
                   33.03,
                   33.14,
Chapter 424        33.15,
                   33.32,
                   33.34,
                   35.09
424.220            33.03
436.600            90.04,
                   90.99
446.010(1)         10.02
446.010(2)         10.02
446.010(8)         10.02
446.010(9)         10.02
446.010(10)        10.02
446.010(12)        10.02
446.010(13)        10.02
446.010(14)        10.02
446.010(15)        10.02
446.010(17)        10.02
446.010(18)        10.02
446.010(23)        10.02
446.010(25)        10.02
446.010(26)        10.02
446.010(27)        10.02
446.010(28)        10.02
446.010(31)        10.02
446.010(33)        10.02
446.010(36)        10.02
446.010(37)        10.02
446.010(39)        10.02
446.010(43)        10.02
446.010(46)        10.02
446.010(47)        10.02
446.010(49)        10.02
446.010(55)        10.02
446.020(1)         10.04
446.020(2)         10.04
446.030            10.05
446.050            10.06
446.060            10.07
446.080(1)         10.04
446.080(3)         10.04
446.080(4)         10.04
446.090            10.08
446.100            10.09
446.110            10.10
446.140            10.01
525.125            90.03
525.130            90.03,
                   90.99
525.135            90.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO 1981 CODE
1981 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1981 Code Section  1993 Code Section
110.1              10.99
120.2              32.03
120.2, § 1        30.02
130.1              32.21
130.3, § 1 (b)    10.03
130.3, § 2 (c)    10.04
130.4, § 1        31.36
130.4, § 2(a)     32.41
130.4, § 2(c)     32.48
130.4, § 3        32.49
140.1, § 1        31.21
140.1, § 1        32.03
140.2, § 2        31.36
140.3, § 2        31.36
140.5              36.11
210.1, §§ 1, 3   32.04
210.1, § 2        36.01
220.1, § 1        33.31
220.1, § 2        33.32
220.1, § 3        33.33
220.1, § 4        33.34
220.1, § 5        33.35
230.1, § 1        37.01
230.1, § 2        37.02
230.1, § 3        37.03
230.1, § 4        37.04
230.1, § 5        37.05
230.1, § 6        37.06
240.1              33.05
250.1, § 2        31.50
320.1, § 2        36.10
320.2              36.12
440.1, §§ 1, 2   111.09
450.1, § 1        114.01
450.1, § 2        114.02
450.1, § 3        114.03
450.1, § 4        114.04
450.1, § 5(g)     114.01
450.1, § 5        114.05
450.1, § 6        114.06
450.1, § 7        114.07
450.1, § 8        114.08
450.1, § 9        114.09
450.1, § 10       114.10
450.1, § 11       114.11
450.1, § 12       114.12
450.1, § 13       114.13
450.1, § 14       114.14
450.1, § 15       114.15
450.1, § 16       114.16
450.1, § 17       114.17
450.1, § 18       114.18
450.1, § 19       114.19
450.1, § 20       114.20
450.1, § 21       114.21
450.1, § 22       114.22
450.1, § 23       114.23
450.1, § 24       114.24
450.1, § 25       114.25
450.1, § 26       114.26
450.1, § 27       114.27
450.1, § 28       114.28
450.1, § 29       114.29
450.1, § 30       114.30
450.1, § 31       114.32
450.1, § 32       114.99
450.1, § 34       114.31
510.1              70.04
520.1, §§ 1 - 6  71.05
520.1, § 7        71.99
520.2, §§ 1 - 3  73.01
520.2, § 4        73.99
520.3, § 1        74.01
520.3, § 2        74.02
520.3, § 3        74.03
520.3, § 4        74.99
530.1, §§ 1, 2   70.16
530.1, § 3        70.17
530.1, § 4        71.01
540.1, §§ 1, 2   72.14
540.1, § 3        72.01
540.1, § 4        72.11
540.1, § 5        72.15
540.1, § 6        72.16
540.1, § 8        72.99
830.1, § 1        50.01
830.1, § 2        50.03
840.1, § 1(a), (b)90.15
840.1, § 2        90.16
830.1, § 3(a)     50.04
830.1, § 3(d)     50.03
1010.2.1           92.03
1010.2.2           92.03
1010.2.3           92.03
1010.2.4           92.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
80-5     7-1-80      T.S.O. III
82-3     8-2-82      72.14,
                     72.99
82-11    11-1-82     72.03
                     94.01 -
83-2     4-4-83      94.15,
                     94.25 -
                     94.28
83-4     4-4-83      92.15 -
                     92.19
84-1     1-1-84      32.21
85-2     7-2-85      72.13,
                     72.14
86-6     5-6-86      92.04
87-6     9-1-87      T.S.O. IV
87-7     12-7-87     90.18
                     50.03,
88-4     7-5-88      74.04,
                     95.01,
                     95.02
89-2     6-6-89      T.S.O. I
89-7     8-1-89      T.S.O. II
89-8     8-1-89      T.S.O. II
89-11    3-7-89      31.20
90-1     2-5-90      32.21
91-1     2-14-91     32.21
91-3     5-6-91      92.03
91-5     8-5-91      35.01 -
                     35.12
                     151.30 -
91-5     12-27-91    151.41,
                     151.50
91-7     9-9-91      113.01 -
                     113.05
91-8     10-14-91    72.01
91-10    11-4-91     111.10,
                     111.99
91-11    11-4-91     Ch. 75, Sch. I
91-13    11-4-91     36.13
91-12    11-4-91     90.21
91-14    11-4-91     130.01
                     151.01 -
                     151.05,
91-15    12-27-91    151.15 -
                     151.19,
                     151.99
92-1     2-3-92      32.21
--1992   - -92       92.03
92-7     6-1-92      35.01 -
                     35.11
93-1     3-1-93      32.21
93-2     3-1-93      35.12
93-3     3-1-93      35.01 -
                     35.11
93-4     5-4-93      115.01,
                     115.02
93-6     7-6-93      32.21
94-1     3-15-94     31.02
94-2     3-15-94     31.02
94-3     3-15-94     32.21
94-4     3-15-94     35.01 -
                     35.11
94-5     3-15-94     35.12
94-6     5-30-94     72.99
94-8     12-5-94     38.01 -
                     38.69
94-9     12-5-94     33.06
95-1     2-6-95      32.21
95-2     2-6-95      35.01 -
                     35.11
95-3     1-9-95      35.12
95-6     8-7-95      92.04
                     31.36,
95-8     12-11-95    31.37,
                     31.50
95-9     12-22-95    T.S.O. III
96-1     2-5-96      32.21
96-2     2-5-96      35.01 -
                     35.11
96-3     2-5-96      35.12
97-1     1-13-97     32.21
97-2     1-13-97     35.01 -
                     35.11
97-3     1-13-97     35.12
97-6     7-14-97     92.04
97-7     7-14-97     72.13
97-8     4-13-97     74.04
98-1     2-9-98      32.21
98.02    2-9-98      35.01 -
                     35.11
98.03    2-9-98      35.12
                     116.01 -
2000-03  1-10-00     116.04,
                     116.99
2000-05  11-13-00    113.01 -
                     113.05
                     150.01 -
2001-05  11-12-01    150.04,
                     150.99
2002-05  7-8-02      31.03
2003-03  3-10-03     151.16
2003-06  9-8-03      150.02
2005-03  8-8-05      117.01 -
                     117.07
2005-06  2-14-05     70.30 -
                     70.35
2006-03  11-13-06    39.01
2010-3   11-8-10     91.01 -
                     91.04
2011-3   8-8-11      118.01 -
                     118.06
2012-3   9-10-12     150.03
2012-5   4-26-12     31.03
2014-3   9-8-14      90.07
2014-4   9-8-14      150.03
16-03    6-13-16     T.S.O. III
                    
 
