FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-021, passed 7-8-2024 and
State legislation through KRS Pamphlet 2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-022
Sponsors: Commissioner Stewart
Commissioner Barnes
Second Reading: January 8, 2018
Publication Date: January 11, 2018
   ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF FRANKLIN -
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Franklin are
incomplete and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing thereof
is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Board of Commissioners to revise, amend, restate, codify and
to compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore
adopted or published and to incorporate the ordinances into one ordinance in
book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the City of Franklin has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The general ordinances of the City of Franklin as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Franklin."
   2.   Such Code of ordinances as adopted in paragraph 1 shall consist of the
following titles: See Table of Contents attached hereto as Exhibit A.
   3.   All prior ordinances adopted up through and including March 1, 2015
pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code of Ordinances shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except as they are
included and re-ordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided that such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or de-annexing territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code. All ordinances adopted after March 1, 2015
shall remain in full force and effect, and said ordinances shall be
incorporated into the book form of the "Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin" as a supplement thereto.
   4.   Such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of the City
of Franklin is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the City Clerk.
   5.   The Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as provided by law. The Code of
Ordinances shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
         December 11, 2017      FIRST READING
         January 8, 2018         SECOND READING
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on January 8, 2018, on a motion made by Commissioner Powell and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full discussion
by the following vote:
                  Aye         LARRY DIXON
                  Aye         JAMIE POWELL
                  Aye         MASON BARNES
                  Aye         WENDELL STEWART
                  Aye         RONNIE CLARK, MAYOR
                           APPROVED BY:
                           Ronnie Clark /s/
                           Ronnie Clark, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
EXHIBIT A
FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
30.   City Commission; Mayor   
31.   City Organizations
32.   Officials and Employees
33.   Personnel Policies; Code of Conduct
34.   Policies and Procedures
35.   Tax, Fees, Funds and Finance
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
50.   General Provisions
51.   Solid Waste; Collection
52.   Cross-Connection Prevention
53.   Fiber Optic Services
54.   Rates and Charges for Water and Sewer System
55.   Sewer Use; User Charge System
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
70.   General Provisions
71.   Operation of Vehicles
72.   Parking Regulations
73.   Vehicle Construction and Equipment
74.   Traffic Schedules
75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
90.   General Provisions
91.   Animal Regulations
92.   Cemetery Provisions; Regulations
93.   Fair Housing
94.   General Nuisances
95.   Streets and Sidewalks
96.   Parades and Special Events
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
110.   General Provisions
111.   Alcoholic Beverages
112.   Cable Television
113.   Garage/Yard Sales
114.   Gross Receipts License Fee
115.   Insurance Companies
116.   Peddlers, Door-to-Door Sellers and Solicitors
117.   Places of Entertainment
118.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
130.   General; Miscellaneous
131.   Business and Commercial Offenses
132.   Drugs and the Like
133.   Family Offenses
134.   Gambling Offenses
135.   Obscene Material
136.   Offenses Against Persons
137.   Offenses Against Property
138.   Sexual Offenses
139.   Weapons; Firearms
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
150.   General Provisions
151.   Building Code
152.   Codes Adopted
153.   Electrical Code; Inspections
154.   Flood Damage Prevention
155.   Unsafe Structures and Buildings
156.   Subdivision Regulations
157.   Comprehensive Plan
158.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
I.   Agreements, Contracts
II.   Annexations
III.   Condemnations
IV.   Development Areas
V.   Franchises
VI.   Land Usage
VII.   Rezoning
VIII.   Street and Alley Closings
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
   References to 1980 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-010
Sponsors: Commissioner Powellt
Commissioner Barnes
Second Reading: June 11, 2018
Publication Date: June 14, 2018
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2018 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2018 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
         May 21, 2018         FIRST READING
         June 11, 2018         SECOND READING
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on June 11, 2018, on a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Powell the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full discussion
by the following vote:
                  Aye         LARRY DIXON
                  Aye         JAMIE POWELL
                  Aye         MASON BARNES
                  Aye         WENDELL STEWART
                  Aye         RONNIE CLARK, MAYOR
                           APPROVED BY:
                           Ronnie Clark /s/
                           Ronnie Clark, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-023
Sponsors: Commissioner Powell
Commissioner Bennett
Second Reading: October 14, 2019
Publication Date: October 24, 2019
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
         September 23, 2019            FIRST READING
         October 14, 2019               SECOND READING
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on October 14, 2019, on a motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Powell the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full discussion
by the following vote:
                  Aye         LARRY DIXON, Mayor
                  Aye         JAMIE POWELL
                  Aye         BROWNIE BENNETT
                  Aye         WENDELL STEWART
                  Aye         HERBERT WILLIAMS
                           APPROVED BY:
                           Larry Dixon /s/
                           LARRY DIXON, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-009
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revisions
or additions of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on
or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2020 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
          August 10, 2020          FIRST READING
          August 24, 2020          SECOND READING
 
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on August 24, 2020, on motion made by Commissioner Stewart and seconded by
Commissioner Bennett the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full
discussion, by the following roll call vote:
                YES       LARRY DIXON, Mayor
                YES       JAMIE POWELL
                YES       BROWNIE BENNETT
                YES       WENDELL STEWART
                YES       HERBERT WILLIAMS
                        APPROVED BY:
                        Larry Dixon, Mayor /s/
                        LARRY DIXON, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-015
Sponsors: Commissioner Powell
Commissioner Stewart
Second Reading: July 26, 2021
Publication Date: July 29, 2021
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revisions
or additions of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on
or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2021 S-43 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   
          July 12, 2021          FIRST READING
          July 26, 2021          SECOND READING
 
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on July 26, 2021, on motion made by Commissioner Powell and seconded by
Commissioner Williams the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full
discussion, by the following roll call vote:
                   YES       LARRY DIXON, Mayor
                   YES       JAMIE POWELL
                   YES       BROWNIE BENNETT
                   YES       WENDELL STEWART
                   YES       HERBERT WILLIAMS
 
                           APPROVED BY:
                           Larry Dixon, Mayor /s/
                           LARRY DIXON, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-021
Sponsors: Commissioner Powell
Commissioner Williams
Second Reading: August 22, 2022
Publication Date: September 1, 2022
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2022 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted through and including December 16, 2021, to the Code of
Ordinances of this municipality and State legislation through KRS Pamphlet
2021; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revisions
or additions of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on
or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2022 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
 
          August 8, 2022          FIRST READING
          August 22, 2022          SECOND READING
 
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on August 22, 2022, on motion made by Commissioner Powell and seconded by
Commissioner Stewart the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full
discussion, by the following roll call vote:
                     YES       LARRY DIXON, Mayor
                     YES       JAMIE POWELL
                   YES       BROWNIE BENNETT
                   YES       WENDELL STEWART
                   YES       HERBERT WILLIAMS
                              APPROVED BY:
 
                              Larry Dixon, Mayor /s/
                              LARRY DIXON, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-001
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   OF THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2023 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
through and including July 10, 2023, to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality and State legislation through KRS Pamphlet 2023; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revisions
or additions of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on
or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky as follows:
   1.   The 2023 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Franklin, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, be
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of Ordinance.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
          January 8, 2024          FIRST READING
          January 22, 2024          SECOND READING
   At a meeting of the City Commission of the City of Franklin, Kentucky, held
on January 22, 2024, on motion made by Commissioner Powell and seconded by
Commissioner Williams the foregoing ordinance was adopted, after full
discussion, by the following roll call vote:
                   YES       LARRY DIXON, Mayor
                   YES       JAMIE POWELL
                   YES       DALE McCREARY
                   YES       WENDELL STEWART
                   YES       HERBERT WILLIAMS
                              APPROVED BY:
                              Larry Dixon, Mayor /s/
                              LARRY DIXON, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Dillard /s/
Cathy Dillard, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Franklin City Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Franklin, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Simpson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included.
      (1)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.
      (2)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected,
be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE;
AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day an offense. Every day that a violation of any provision of
this code of ordinances continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Confinement. When a person shall be confined in the county jail under
a judgment of the city police court for failing to pay a fine or cost assessed
in the court, he or she shall be allowed the sum of $2 credited on his or her
fine, and costs for each day he or she is confined in jail.
   (C)   Jury trial. In all prosecutions under any ordinance where the fine may
exceed $20, the person charged shall be entitled to a jury.
(1980 Code, § 1030.1)
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COMMISSION; MAYOR
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES; CODE OF CONDUCT
      
34.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
35.   TAX, FEES, FUNDS AND FINANCE
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COMMISSION; MAYOR
Section
   
30.01   Nonpartisan election of candidates
   
30.02   Procedures for introducing an ordinance
   
30.03   Dates and times of regularly scheduled meetings
   
30.04   Salaries of the Mayor and members of the Commission
§ 30.01 NONPARTISAN ELECTION OF CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The city hereby determines that the nomination and election of
candidates for Mayor and the City Commission shall be on a nonpartisan basis in
the general election in November, every four years in the case of the Mayor,
beginning with 2002, and every two years for members of the City Commission
beginning in 2002. The city hereby elects to forego conducting a nonpartisan
primary election for the nomination of candidates for Mayor and the City
Commission, regardless of the number of candidates running for the offices.
   (B)   All candidates for election to the office of Mayor and for Commission
members for the four seats on the City Commission shall file nomination papers
with the County Clerk no later than the first Tuesday in August preceding the
general election or the date set by any applicable provision of the state
statutes for holding a regular election. The nomination papers shall be filed
not later than 4:00 p.m. local time, when filed on the last day on which the
papers are permitted to be filed.
   (C)   The election of the Mayor and Commission members shall be governed by
state law.
(Ord. 130.9-2000, passed 11-27-2000)
§ 30.02 PROCEDURES FOR INTRODUCING AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Prior to any ordinance being presented to the City Commission at any
meeting for a reading, a minimum of two members of the Commission may request
an ordinance to be drafted by the City Attorney. The request may be verbal or
in writing, and the members of the Commission requesting the preparation of an
ordinance shall inform the City Attorney of the general nature of the ordinance
to be prepared, whether or not it is an amendment to an existing ordinance or a
new ordinance, and a detailed description of the proposed contents of the new
ordinance and/or amendment of an existing ordinance. Alternatively, if an
ordinance is required or needed, in the discretion of city staff, an ordinance
may be prepared or reviewed by the City Attorney prior to being presented to
the City Commission for review and a request for sponsors. Provided, however,
that the ordinance cannot have a reading without at least two members of the
City Commission agreeing to sponsor the ordinance for formal presentation and
readings to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall not prepare an ordinance unless or until he or
she has been personally contacted, verbally or in writing, by at least two
members of the Commission requesting the preparation of said ordinance.
   (C)   In the event that an ordinance is required due to emergency
circumstances, one member of the Commission can authorize the City Attorney to
draft an ordinance under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If a situation arises where an ordinance is required to prevent
injury and/or damage to persons or property located in the city; or
      (2)   If a substantiate emergency exists for the preparation and passage
of an ordinance and the member of the Commission requesting the preparation of
an ordinance is unable to make contact with any other member of the Commission.
(Ord. 130.10-8-02, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 2024-012, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 30.03 DATES AND TIMES OF REGULARLY SCHEDULED MEETINGS.
   The City Commission shall hold its regularly scheduled meetings on the
second and fourth Mondays of each month at 12:00 noon. Beginning July 1, 2024,
the meetings shall take place in the Meeting Room of the Franklin Police
Department, 501 West Madison Street, Franklin, Kentucky. In addition, the City
Commission shall hold regular meetings beginning at 9:00 a.m. with the Simpson
Fiscal Court on the second Monday of the month of March and beginning at 12:00
noon on the third Tuesday in the month of October each year. The March meetings
shall take place in the Meeting Room of the Franklin Police Department, 501
West Madison Street, Franklin, Kentucky and the October meetings shall take
place in the old Simpson County Courthouse building on the public square in the
city.
(Ord. 150.5-03-2003, passed 4-14-2003; Ord. 120.7-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013;
Ord. 2018-003, passed 3-26-2018; Ord. 2019-021, passed 9-23-2019; Ord. 2023-
031, passed 9-11-2023; Ord. 2024-012, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 30.04 SALARIES OF THE MAYOR AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   Effective January 1, 2023, beginning with the 2023 terms of the then current
Mayor and members of the City Commission, the salary of the Mayor shall be set
at a new salary rate of $30,000 per year with health insurance benefits to
continue as previously set by ordinances relating to the salary of the Mayor;
and the salary of each member of the City Commission shall be set at $15,000
per year and, in addition, City Commissioners shall receive single or family
employee health insurance benefits, as requested by the Commissioner. If a
Commissioner is on or qualifies for a Medicare supplement, the city shall
reimburse the Commissioner the cost of said supplement for the Commissioner and
his or her spouse. Further, due to the increased responsibility and time
required to serve as members of the City Commission, the Commission declares
and submits that all members of the City Commission shall remain qualified for
and shall receive retirement benefits through the County Employees Retirement
System (CERS) as set by and through CERS at the rate allowable under the CERS
plan and all applicable laws and regulations of the commonwealth and the city’s
ordinances, regulations and/or policies.
(Ord. 130.9-4-06, passed 4-24-2006; Ord. 2022-012, passed 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Organizations Generally
   
31.01   Electric Plant Board
   
31.02   Playground and Recreation System; Board
   
31.03   Department of Sanitation
   
31.04   Municipal water system
   
31.05   Franklin-Simpson Industrial Authority
Police Department
   
31.20   Auxiliary police force
   
31.21   911 Answering System
   
31.22   Off-duty employment
Cross Reference:
   Historic Preservation Committee, see §§
161.04,
161.05
ORGANIZATIONS GENERALLY
§ 31.01 ELECTRIC PLANT BOARD.
   (A)   The city declares and records its desire and intention to accept and
operate under the provisions of Chapter 18 of the Act, of the 1942 General
Assembly of Kentucky (KRS 96.550) and hereby accepts and agrees to all of the
provisions thereof as now constituted and as they may from time to time be
amended by the Acts of the General Assembly of Kentucky.
   (B)   The Board of Directors of the Electric Plant Board of the city shall
be comprised of five members, and no person shall be appointed unless he or she
has resided within the city for at least two years preceding the date of his or
her appointment, nor unless he or she is a property owner of the city, nor
unless he or she is otherwise qualified under KRS 96.740.
   (C)   The four regular members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city,
subject to the approval of the City Commission, for a term of four years each,
and no member may serve more than two successive four-year terms, at the end of
which period any such person shall be ineligible for reappointment until a two-
year period has expired from the date of his or her last (second) four-year
term. All present members appointed to the Board of Directors shall complete
their respective terms as appointed and are eligible for one additional four-
year term if reappointed by the City Commission.
      (1)   The fifth member shall be one of the members of the City Commission
as designated by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Commission, and such
member’s term shall be fixed by the Mayor, but no longer than his or her term
of office as a member of the City Commission.
      (2)   If any member resigns or for any reason ceases to be a member of
the Board before the expiration of his or her term, the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Commission, shall appoint a new member to complete such
member’s unexpired term, and the provisions as set forth above shall apply.
   (D)   Upon the appointment of the Board, the name shall be the “Electric
Plant Board of the City”. The Board shall have the general supervision,
improvement, operation and maintenance of an electric plant for the city, and
shall have all the powers, authority, duties and responsibilities of boards of
public utilities created, appointed and qualified under and pursuant to the
provisions of the Act of the General Assembly referred to in division (A)
above.
   (E)   The city shall not be liable for the payment of any salary or
compensation of any of the members of the Board of Public Utilities, or for the
payment of the salary or compensation or expenses of any person employed by the
boards all of which salaries, compensation and expenses and any liabilities of
whatsoever kind of character incurred by the Board, or any officer or employee
thereof, shall be payable solely and only out of revenues obtained by the Board
under the provisions of the Act referred to in division (A) above.
(1980 Code, § 150.1-1) (Ord. 150.1A, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 31.02 PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION SYSTEM; BOARD.
   (A)   There is established a playground and recreation system in the city
pursuant to the provisions of KRS 97.020.
   (B)   In order to make the recreation system effective, there is established
a Playground and Recreation Board, which will possess (...missing text...).
(1980 Code, § 150.1-2)
§ 31.03 DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION.
   (A)   Establishment. A Department of Sanitation is established, and the
Mayor is directed to appoint a member of the Commission as Commissioner of this
Department. The Commissioner shall serve for such term as the Mayor shall
designate.
   (B)   Establishment of municipally operated garbage disposal system.
      (1)   A municipally operated garbage disposal system is established which
shall be regulated by and under the control of the Department of Sanitation.
      (2)   The garbage disposal system shall be commenced and become effective
on April 1, 1970.
   (C)   Department of Sanitation shall fix rates and adopt regulations.
      (1)   The Department of Sanitation shall fix such rates and adopt such
regulations for collection of garbage which it deems reasonable and in the best
interest of the residents under its jurisdiction and shall fix such rates and
adopt such regulations which it deems reasonable and in the best interest of
the users of the city water system who reside outside the city limits. These
rates and regulations may be changed from time to time in the event
circumstances arise indicating the advisability of a change.
      (2)   The rates and regulations, including scheduled routes, upon being
fixed by the Department of Sanitation, shall be published in the Franklin
Favorite, a weekly newspaper of general wide circulation in the city. This
publication shall constitute notice to the public to be served. Any future
changes shall likewise be published.
(1980 Code, § 150.2)
§ 31.04 MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The management and control of the water and sewer system of the city,
shall be, and is hereby, vested in, and shall henceforth be carried on and
administered by, the city, its duly elected and acting City Commission.
   (B)   The City Water and Sewer Commission known as the “Franklin Municipal
Water System” shall assemble all books and records pertaining to the water and
sewer system of the city, and make said books and records available to the
city.
   (C)   The City Water and Sewer Commission known as the “Franklin Municipal
Water System” shall surrender control of the water and sewer system of the
city, to the city.
   (D)   Any and all property, both real and personal, property rights, water
lines, sewer lines, easements, rights-of-way and lift stations currently owned
by, titled in the name of, or otherwise in the possession of the said municipal
water system shall be transferred to the city, by appropriate instruments. Any
instruments necessary in order to accomplish said transfers shall be executed
by the Mayor of the city, and attested by the City Clerk, for and in behalf of
said municipal water system.
   (E)   The obligation previously imposed on the City Water and Sewer
Commission known as the “Franklin Municipal Water System” to perform any and
all covenants and agreements contained in any contract or obligation between
the city and the holder of any revenue bonds secured by the revenues of such
system, is hereby returned to the city, and the city shall hereafter be
responsible for the performance of any and all covenants and agreements
contained in any contract or obligation between the city and the holder of any
revenue bonds secured by the revenues of such system, to the full extent of the
law.
   (F)   Upon the accomplishment of all of the foregoing, the City Water and
Sewer Commission known as the “Franklin Municipal Water System” shall be, and
is hereby abolished as an entity.
   (G)   Upon the accomplishment of all of the foregoing, and upon the
abolition of the City Water and Sewer Commission known as the “Franklin
Municipal Water System”, Ord. 150.3, Ord. 150.31 and Ord. 150.32, shall be, and
are hereby repealed in their entirety.
(Ord. 150.33, passed 11-23-1982)
§ 31.05 FRANKLIN-SIMPSON INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The name of the organization hereby created shall be the Franklin-
Simpson Industrial Development Authority (hereinafter the “Authority”).
   (B)   The purpose of the Authority shall be to promote economic development,
including, but not limited to, industrial, agricultural, tourism and small
business in the city and the county, and to work with all federal, state and
local agencies and groups to accomplish said purposes.
   (C)   The Franklin-Simpson Industrial Develop- ment Authority shall be
governed by a board composed as follows:
      (1)   Eight members, four of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor, and
four by the County Judge Executive.
      (2)   Members of the Authority shall serve for a term of four years each
and until their successors are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that
the initial appointment shall be made so that two members are appointed for two
years, two members for three years and two members for four years. Upon
expiration of these staggered terms, successors shall be appointed for a term
of four years.
      (3)   An Industrial Development Authority member may be replaced by the
appointing authority upon a showing to the appointing authority of misconduct
as an authority member or upon conviction of a felony.
      (4)   Members of the Authority shall serve without compensation, but may
be reimbursed for any actual and necessary expenses incurred by them in the
conduct of the affairs of the Authority. The Authority shall, upon the
appointment of its members, organize and elect officers. The Authority shall
choose a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson who shall serve for a term of one
year. The Authority may fix a salary for the Secretary/Treasurer, and the
Secretary/Treasurer shall execute an official bond to be set and approved by
the Authority, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the Authority.
      (5)   The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep minutes of all meetings of the
Authority and shall also keep a set of books showing the receipts and
expenditures of the Authority. The Secretary/ Treasurer shall preserve on file
duplicate vouchers of all expenditures and shall present to the Authority, upon
request, complete reports of all financial transactions and financial condition
of the Authority. Such books and vouchers shall at all times be subject to
examination by the legislative bodies by whom the Authority was created. The
Secretary/Treasurer shall transmit at least once annually a detailed report of
all acts and doings of the Authority to the legislative bodies by whom the
Authority was created.
   (D)   The following persons shall be ex-officio non-voting members of the
Authority: the Mayor of the city; the County Judge Executive; the President of
the Franklin-Simpson Chamber of Commerce; the Superintendent of the Franklin-
Simpson Schools; and in addition the Mayor and the County Judge shall each
appoint one additional at large non-voting member from the community for a term
not to exceed four years.
   (E)   The Authority may employ necessary counsel, agents and employees to
carry out its work and functions and prescribe such rules and regulations as it
deems necessary.
   (F)   A quorum for the transaction of the business of the Authority shall
consist of four voting members. Meetings of the Authority may be called by the
Chairperson or by four voting members. In case of tie voting by the Authority,
the issue shall be deemed to have failed passage.
   (G)   The Authority shall be a body politic and corporate with the usual
corporate attributes, and in its corporate name may sue and be sued, contract
and be contracted with and do all things reasonable or necessary to effectively
carry out the duties prescribed by KRS 154.50-301 to 154.50-346.
   (H)   The purpose, duties and powers of the Authority shall be to:
      (1)   Acquire, retain and develop land for industrial and commercial
purposes in the state; aid in the development and promotion of industrial
sites, parks and subdivisions to meet industrial and commercial needs in the
state;
      (2)   Encourage the acquisition, retention and development of land for
industrial and commercial needs in the state by other local development
organizations, both public and private;
      (3)   Cooperate with the United States Army Corps of Engineers and other
federal agencies in formulating development plans and in acquiring and
developing land for industrial and commercial purposes in accordance with these
plans; and
      (4)   Acquire by contract, lease, purchase, gift, condemnation or
otherwise any real or personal property or rights therein, necessary or
suitable for establishing industrial sites, parks or subdivisions. The
Authority may dispose of any real or personal property, or rights therein,
which in the opinion of the Authority are no longer needed to carry out the
purposes of KRS 154.50-301 to 154.50-346. The Authority may lease, sell or
convey any or all industrial sites, parks and subdivisions owned or optioned by
it to any public or private organization, governmental unit or industry for the
purpose of constructing and/or operating any manufacturing, industrial or
commercial facility; provided, however, that no sale or conveyance of any land
shall be made to a private organization or industry without such organization
or industry first having executed a written contract with the Authority
providing that if no actual construction of an industrial facility is commenced
within ten years, the organization or industry shall reconvey the land, free
and clear of liens and encumbrances, to the Authority, and the Authority shall
return to the organization or industry 95% of the purchase price paid
therefore.
   (I)   Upon the adoption by the Authority of a resolution reciting that
property is needed for industrial sites, parks and subdivisions and cannot be
acquired by negotiation and purchase at its fair market value, the governmental
units in which such land is located may direct and institute condemnation
proceedings in the name of such governmental units for the use and benefit of
the Authority. The procedure for condemnation shall conform to the procedure
set out in the Eminent Domain Act of Kentucky. Upon acquisition of the
property, the governmental unit shall convey the property to the Authority upon
payment by the Authority to the governmental unit of an amount of money equal
to the judgment and costs paid by the governmental unit.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any other provision or section of KRS 154.50-301 to
154.50-346, no governmental unit shall have the power to condemn the property
under KRS 154.50-301 to 154.50-346 unless the governmental unit has first given
proper public notice as required by law stating the specific purpose for which
the property to be condemned shall be used and said purposes shall be pleaded
and proved in such condemnation action. The property shall be developed within
a period of five years pursuant to the purpose stated, and the failure of the
Authority to so develop shall entitle the person or persons whose property was
condemned to repurchase the property at the price the Authority paid to the
governmental unit for the same. The person from whom the land is taken by
condemnation shall have the right to reacquire the land as aforementioned by
application to the court of competent jurisdiction, if such procedure be
necessary, and shall be entitled to recovery of his or her costs and reasonable
attorneys fees necessary to reacquire said land.
   (K)   The Authority will be the organization responsible for industrial
recruitment for a local government. All other agencies involved in industrial
recruitment should coordinate their activities through the Authority.
   (L)   (1)   In the event that the city or the county, desires to withdraw
from participation in the Authority, then the remaining participant may jointly
choose a successor member or members of the Authority. No such withdrawing city
or county shall be entitled to the return of any money or property advanced
such Authority.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (L)(1) above, the city
and county having established a joint industrial development Authority as
provided for herein, may provide by mutual written agreement between such city
and county and the joint industrial development Authority, that such joint
industrial development Authority may be dissolved and may further provide that
upon such complete termination, all funds, property and other assets held by
the joint industrial development Authority shall be returned to the city and
county and the same proportions as the contributions of funds, property and
other assets were made by such city and county. This section shall not apply
and no dissolution shall be made until such time as all legal obligations of
the joint Authority shall be satisfied and all existing commitments fulfilled.
   (M)   (1)   In order to provide money for the purchase of property necessary
to develop industrial, parks and subdivisions, the legislative body of the city
and county may make an annual appropriation from its general fund for such
industrial development. Any appropriation shall be made by the legislative body
in such amounts, in such proportion, and upon such terms as the legislative
body may determine. All funds derived from such appropriation shall be turned
over to the industrial development Authority for the purpose of carrying out
the duties and powers of the Authority.
      (2)   The Authority may borrow money and issue notes and other financial
instruments on its own credit. The Authority may pledge the appropriations or
income anticipated or the industrial site, parks and subdivisions, or both, as
security for its debt.
      (3)   The Authority is authorized to defray the costs of acquiring and
developing any industrial sites, parks and subdivisions through the issuance of
revenue bonds issued under the terms, conditions and procedures set forth in
KRS 103.200 to 103.285.
      (4)   The Authority may, as an alternative method and in addition to all
other methods provided by law, acquire and develop land for industrial and
commercial use, and issue revenue bonds in connection therewith under the terms
and provisions of KRS Chapter 58; and under said law, GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY means
the Authority and the term PUBLIC PROJECT means industrial sites, parks and
subdivisions.
   (N)   The title to all property acquired by the Authority shall vest in the
Authority. All property acquired for the development of industrial sites, parks
and subdivisions shall be exempt from taxation to the same extent as other
property used for public purposes. All revenues collected by the Authority
shall also be exempt from taxation.
   (O)   The acquisition of any lands for the purpose of developing industrial
sites, parks and subdivisions is hereby declared to be a public and
governmental function, exercised for a public purpose and a matter of public
necessity, and such lands and other property, easements and privileges acquired
in the manner and for the purposes enumerated in KRS 154.50-301 to 154.50-346,
shall and are hereby declared to be acquired and used for public and
governmental purposes and as a matter of public necessity.
   (P)   KRS 83A.060(7) provides that publication of an ordinance, in order to
make it effective need not be done in an emergency, upon the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of the membership of the city’s legislative body, provided that
the legally required publication requirement is carried out within ten days of
the enactment of the emergency ordinance. The City Commission for the city
hereby finds that the creation of this Authority is necessary in order to
receive a very valuable low interest loan from the State Industrial Development
and Finance Authority and that the creation of this Authority in an expedited
fashion is necessary to meet the time constraints of timely closing on said
loan, and therefore an emergency exists so that it is necessary and in the
public interest to issue this section immediately, and the city hereby declares
such an emergency to exist. Therefore, in accordance with KRS 83A.060(7), an
emergency is declared to exist for the reasons above set forth and the
Commission suspends the requirements of publication of the ordinance in order
for it to become effective, so that the ordinance and shall be effective upon
the adoption of this section; and further, this section, because of said
emergency, hereby declared, shall be effective upon its adoption on first
reading, without publication, as provided in KRS 83A.060(7), and the
Commission, having hereby suspended the requirements of second and
publications. This section or a summary hereof shall be published within ten
days of the adoption of this section as provided by law.
   (Q)   This section shall be effective immediately as read at the meeting
being specifically approved and adopted for the purposes of first and only
reading and for the purposes of publication according to law.
(Ord. 151.0-1999, passed 7-12-1999; Ord. 2015-002, passed 1-26-2015)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   All of the auxiliary police force shall be residents of the city, if
possible, and otherwise residents of the county, who have qualified under the
rules and regulations as established by this section, and who have successfully
completed their training, certified in writing by the Training Officer, and
have been recommended by the Chief of Police of the city, and the Mayor and the
Police Commissioner and approved by the City Commission, shall be and there is
hereby appointed members of the city auxiliary police force.
   (B)   The membership of said force shall be limited to the number of persons
as established from time to time by the City Commission. Rank shall be limited
to one Auxiliary Lieutenant and Auxiliary Patrolman. Names and addresses of
each person applying for membership must be listed with the Chief of Police of
the city.
   (C)   The duties of the auxiliary police force shall be limited to the
following functions:
      (1)   Traffic detail: writing tickets, handling accidents;
      (2)   Work in communications section;
      (3)   Assisting officers in contacts with citizens, lectures, patrolling
parts and crime prevention campaigns;
      (4)   Conducting tours of the Police Department;
      (5)   Report on and patrol vacant homes;
      (6)   Report on abandoned vehicles;
      (7)   Clerical duties; and
      (8)   Refer citizens to other agencies.
   (D)   Other functions jointly agreed upon between Chief of Police and Mayor:
members of such force will at all times while on duty have said badge and
identifications as auxiliary police, and be in full regular police uniform
during regular eight-hour shift. Members of the auxiliary police force shall be
permitted to carry firearms only while on duty, and only after the training
officer certifies in writing satisfactory completion of training in the proper
use of firearms and they will have the power to arrest when under the direction
of a regular duty officer. The city auxiliary police will be compensated on an
hourly basis, rate of which will be determined by the City Commission. Members
of said force shall work duty shifts as scheduled by the Chief of Police and
shall log in and out according to duty foster.
   (E)   Education requirements: graduate from a standard high school or
completion of GED.
   (F)   Necessary special requirements:
      (1)   Minimum age, 21 years, must possess a valid Kentucky Motor
Operator’s License; must have sufficient correctable vision to adequately
perform assigned duties; and
      (2)   All applicants for auxiliary police officer shall be required to
complete a physical examination and a personnel screening test.
   (G)   Members of said force will be duly sworn as auxiliary police officers,
will be governed by the same rules and regulations which apply to regular city
police officers. They shall have the same rights and privileges as any duly
sworn officer but said rights and privileges shall be restricted to the duty
shift or hours of work properly scheduled by the Chief of Police.
(1980 Code, § 320.1) (Ord. 320.1A, passed 4-12-1982)
§ 31.21 911 ANSWERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Commission and the Fiscal Court for the county hereby approve
the terms and conditions of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement establishing a
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) at Kentucky State Police Post 3 to answer
all Enhanced 911 calls originating from the city and the county, a copy of
which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city, and the County Judge Executive, are hereby
authorized to execute any and all documents necessary and appropriate to
effectuate the intent of this section, and the interlocal cooperation agreement
including, but not limited to, the interlocal cooperation agreement.
(Ord. 330.05-10-2011, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 31.22 OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT.
   Any police officer working in any off-duty employment position shall comply
with the city Code of Ethics, as well as the Police Department Policies and
Procedures Manual. All off-duty employment allowed by the Chief of Police that
involves the officer working in uniform, carrying their service weapon, driving
their police car or other actions creating the impression that the police
officer is working for the city may be approved, but only by the execution of a
written agreement satisfactory to the Chief of Police, City Manager, and the
city’s Law Department. The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to determine
an established service cost for each rank of police officer and to modify those
established service costs on an annual basis to account for cost of living
increases. The number of police officers and the rank of those officers
authorized in any such contract shall be within the discretion of the Chief of
Police. All such agreements shall include language that the city shall be
reimbursed the established service costs of contracted police officers.
(Ord. 2016-003, passed 4-25-2016)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Officials and Employees Generally
   
32.01   Requirements for city approval for expenditures
   
32.02   City to participate in county employees retirement system
   
32.03   Affirmative Action Plan
   
32.04   Hiring of relatives
   
32.05   Applicant screening
   
32.06   City employees’ retirement benefits
   
32.07   Members of Housing Authority; compensation
Specific Officials, Employees
   
32.20   City officers; bonds
   
32.21   Clerk; duties
   
32.22   Clerk to act as Collector
   
32.23   Treasurer; duties
   
32.24   Chief of Police; duties
   
32.25   Mayor
   
32.26   City Manager
   
32.27   Citation Officer
City Officials Training Program
   
32.35   Definitions
   
32.36   Adoption of City Officials Training Program; application
   
32.37   Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
32.38   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
32.39   Administration
   
32.40   Status of incentive payments
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
§ 32.01 REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY APPROVAL FOR EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The expenditure of any funds for trips by any city personnel over $250
must have prior City Commission approval.
   (B)   Any expenditure over $500 shall require prior Commission approval.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not affect the normal day by day
operating expenses of the city, such as, the paying of salaries, utilities and
the like, nor shall these limitations be effective during an emergency.
(Ord. 130.5-6-86, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 32.02 CITY TO PARTICIPATE IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   This agency be and is hereby authorized to participate in the county
employees retirement system effective July 1, 1988, and that all eligible
regular full-time officers and employees of this agency are hereby authorized
and directed to comply with the statutory requirements of this retirement
system.
   (B)   All the employees of this agency whose duties require an average of
100 hours during each working month be considered as “regular full-time”
employees for county retirement purposes, except those other persons who are
employed as “temporary”, “part-time” and “seasonal” workers, as defined in KRS
78.510(21) of the County Employees Retirement Laws.
(Ord. 230.3-6-88, passed 6-13-1988)
§ 32.03 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN.
   (A)   The grantee Section 3 Affirmative Action Plan is hereby adopted.
   (B)   This Affirmative Action Plan shall be enacted and take effect
immediately upon adoption of this order.
   (C)   The city (hereafter referred to as “the grantee”) hereby agrees to
implement a Section 3 Affirmative Action Plan in the CDBG Project Area as
funded by the commonwealth from Community Development Block Grant funds. Under
this Section 3 Plan the grantee agrees to implement specific affirmative action
steps directed at increasing opportunities for training and employment of lower
income residents of the project area and increasing the utilization of business
concerns located within the community. The Section 3 Project Area, as defined
by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, encompasses
the entire portion of the Harristown community affected by the grant.
   (D)   In accordance with this Section 3 Affirmative Action Plan, the grantee
hereby agrees as follows:
      (1)   To identify projected work force needs for all phases of the
program by occupation, trade, skill level and number of positions and to
develop utilization goals for the employment of lower income project area
residents for each;
      (2)   To attempt to recruit from within the county the requisite number
of project area residents through local advertising media; posted signs;
community organizations; and public and private institutions operating within
or serving the project area;
      (3)   To identify eligible business concerns for CDBG/HOME assisted
contracts through: the Chamber of Commerce, the Urban League, local advertising
median including public signage; project area committees, citizen advisory
boards; lists available through CDBG program officials; regional planning
agencies and all other appropriate referral sources;
      (4)   To maintain a list of eligible business concerns for utilization in
CDBG/HOME funded procurements, to ensure that all appropriate project area
business concerns are notified of pending contractual opportunities, and to
make available this list for general county procurement needs;
      (5)   To require all bidders on contracts of over $100,000 to submit a
written Section 3 Plan, including goals and the specific steps planned to
accomplish these goals;
      (6)   To ensure that contracts which are typically let on a negotiated
rather than a bid basis in areas other than Section 3 covered project areas are
also let on a negotiated basis, whenever feasible, when let in a Section 3
covered project area;
      (7)   To maintain records, including copies of correspondence,
memorandums and the like, which document that all of the above affirmative
action steps have been taken; and
      (8)   To appoint or recruit an executive official of the city as Equal
Opportunity Officer to coordinate the implementation of this Section 3 Plan.
   (E)   (1)   Statement of policy. The affirmative action policy of the
grantee is to promote equal employment opportunity; to prohibit discrimination
in employment on account of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or
handicapped status; and to bring about a fair representation and utilization of
females and minorities on all levels of employment.
      (2)   Dissemination of policy. The grantee will advise all employees and
applicants for employment of this policy and will post it in a conspicuous
place. The grantee will make known to the public that employment opportunities
are available on the basis of individual ability and will encourage all persons
who are employed by the grantee to strive for advancement on that basis.
      (3)   Personnel actions. The grantee will actively recruit qualified or
qualifiable persons among females and minorities on a non-discriminatory basis
for all available job openings at every level; and the grantee will ensure
every employee equal treatment in respect to terms and conditions of
employment, job assignments, compensation, access to training and promotions.
      (4)   Workforce utilization; goals and timetables. The grantee will
analyze the utilization of females and minorities in its workforce and compare
it with the utilization by all employers in the county according to the latest
official census. The goal of the grantee is to bring about comparable
utilization in all categories within the next five years.
      (5)   Responsibility for implementation. The Mayor of the city shall be
responsible for implementation of this Affirmative Action Plan, including
maintenance of the Workforce Analysis and Job Roster and hearing complaints of
discrimination by any employees or prospective employees of the grantee, with a
final appeal to the City Commission.
      (6)   Evaluation and reports. The person given responsibility for
implementation of this Plan shall examine its operation periodically and shall
report the progress being made, together with recommendations for improvements
in the Plan, to the grantee at least once every year.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-9-2001; Ord. 11, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 32.04 HIRING OF RELATIVES.
   (A)   No person shall be employed by the city for work to be preformed
within the same division or work unit in any of the various departments wherein
the applicant for employment is related by blood or marriage to a then existing
employee within the department in any of the following degrees, viz, husband,
wife, father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law. For the purpose of this section, DIVISION
or WORK UNIT shall mean a separate unit of a department that has been set up in
the regular and normal functioning routine of the department’s area of
operation. For example, the Patrol Division of the Police Department has
several sections. It is the intent of this section that any person haying such
a relationship described could be employed as long as such employment is not
within the same structured division, work unit or section.
   (B)   It is further ordained that no person shall be employed by the city
for services in any department of the city who is related by blood or marriage
to any currently serving elected city official or the City Manager in any of
the following degrees of relationship, viz, husband, wife, father, mother, son,
daughter, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law or
brother-in-law.
(Ord. 230.4-1-90, passed 1-22-1990)
§ 32.05 APPLICANT SCREENING.
   (A)   All applicants for employment shall be required to undergo a drug
screening test. Employment will be denied to any applicant whose drug screen
test reveals the presence of illegal drugs or prescription drugs without a
valid prescription.
   (B)   Post-employment drug/alcohol testing may be required of all employees
in the following positions:
      (1)   Police officers and Police Department personnel;
      (2)   Volunteer fire personnel;
      (3)   Water plant employees; and
      (4)   Heavy equipment operators.
   (C)   Testing may be required under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When an employee is involved in a work-related accident or
incident;
      (2)   When the department director or the City Manager have reasonable
cause or a suspicion of work-related use; and
      (3)   On a random basis as deemed appropriate by the Department Director
or the City Manager.
   (D)   No employee will be requested to submit to a drug or alcohol screening
test unless specific authorization to such test has been granted by the City
Manager. Failure or refusal by an employee to submit to testing when requested
shall be grounds for termination of employment.
(Ord. 230.6-6-94, passed 6-28-1994)
§ 32.06 CITY EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   (A)   The preamble to this section is hereby adopted by reference herein.
   (B)   Beginning March 15, 2003, no past, present or future city employee
shall be eligible for the “old city retirement plan” (as that term is defined
in the preamble to this ordinance with benefits as set forth in division (C)
below) unless he or she meets (or exceeds, as the case may be) the following
requirements:
      (1)   The employee must be at least 65 years of age;
      (2)   The employee must have 20 or more years of full-time employment
service with the city;
      (3)   The employee must not have participated in the CERS or the City IRA
plan mentioned hereinabove; and
      (4)   The employee can not be employed by the city, in any capacity
whether full or part time, at any time in which he or she receives benefits
under the “old city retirement plan”.
   (C)   If a person is eligible, under the criteria set forth in division (B)
above to receive benefits under the “old city retirement plan”, he or she shall
receive the following benefits upon and after the employee’s sixty-fifth
birthday:
      (1)   One hundred dollars per month for the life of the employee, with
this benefit inuring to the benefit of his or her spouse until said spouse’s
death, if said spouse does, in fact, survive the employee;
      (2)   A life insurance policy and/or death benefit in the amount of
$5,000 payable to a designated beneficiary upon the death of the employee; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits (or Medicare supplements) for the
employee and his or her spouse for the life of the employee and his or her
spouse, with said benefit to cease upon the death of the person receiving said
benefit.
(Ord. 230.9-2003, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 32.07 MEMBERS OF HOUSING AUTHORITY; COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Housing Authority of the city, except for ex-officio
members, shall be compensated by the Housing Authority of the city at the rate
of $100 per month.
(Ord. 940.10-11-10, passed 11-8-2010)
SPECIFIC OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES
§ 32.20 CITY OFFICERS; BONDS.
   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, the Treasurer
shall execute a bond, to the city, in the penal sum of $10, the Chief of Police
a bond in the penal sum of $2,500, and each member of the police force a bond
in the penal sum of $1,000, each bond conditioned for the faithful performance
of his or her duties, and includes in the same bond the duties of all offices
of which each such person is made ex officio incumbent. Each bond shall be
approved by the Commission.
(1980 Code, § 130.2-1)
§ 32.21 CLERK; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk shall attend all Commission meetings and keep the minutes
and all records of same, including indexes. He or she shall be custodian of the
city records. He or she shall prepare tax bills and receipts each year. He or
she shall keep complete water and sewer records of the city.
   (B)   The Clerk shall preserve and carefully file, properly labeled, all
bonds, contracts, reports, books, documents or papers of any description,
belonging to or affecting the interest of the city or of individuals, which
shall come to his or her hands as Clerk, and shall exhibit the same to any
person interested therein at any time when called upon to do so.
   (C)   The Clerk shall also keep a separate account of moneys, collected and
due the city, so as to exhibit the amount collected under each head.
   (D)   The Clerk shall keep an alphabetical list of the business or vocation
for the carrying on of which in the city a license may be required by the
Commission, when and to whom granted, the character of the business licensed,
and the amount received by the Treasurer for the same, and shall report the
receipts to the Commission at its regular meeting.
   (E)   The Clerk shall keep in a book to be furnished for that purpose, an
alphabetical list of all claims presented to the Commission for payment,
together with the name of the claimants, and the date when presented, and the
amount of each claim. He or she shall note each claim whether allowed or
rejected, and if allowed, the amount so allowed. He or she shall keep the
original account or claim on file with the other records of the city.
   (F)   When any fine shall be remitted by the Mayor with the consent of the
Commission, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to furnish the Judge of the
Police Court a copy of the order of remission.
(KRS Chapter 86) (1980 Code, § 130.2-2)
§ 32.22 CLERK TO ACT AS COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The Clerk of the Commission of the city shall perform the duties of
Collector of the city, and the Clerk shall possess the statutory qualifications
of a Collector, and shall take the same oath and execute the same bond as
required of the City Treasurer before entering upon the duties of his or her
office.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint a special auditing committee to be composed of
three members of the Commission of which the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee shall be ex officio Chairperson. The Committee, after the city tax
bills have been made out by the Clerk from the schedules, shall carefully check
the tax bills against the schedules and correct all errors. The Chairperson of
the committee shall carefully check the tax bills against the schedules and
correct all errors. The Chairperson of the committee shall sign the tax bills
as “Finance Chairperson” and deliver them to the Clerk as Collector, taking his
or her receipt therefor in duplicate, showing the number of bills delivered and
their aggregate amount.
(KRS 92.160) (1980 Code, § 130.2-3)
§ 32.23 TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall make a monthly and annual report of all
moneys received and disbursed.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall so keep his or her accounts that they will truly
and clearly exhibit the amount of all money paid into the treasury, by whom,
and on what account paid, and also in like manner exhibit the amount of public
expenditures and each item thereof.
(KRS 92.060) (1980 Code, § 130.2-4)
§ 32.24 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   Every three months the Chief of Police shall report to the Commission
the amount of fees due the city collected by him or her for violations of the
ordinances of the city. He or she shall pay into the treasury that portion of
the fines due the city collected by him or her, taking the Treasurer’s receipt
therefor.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall see that the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city are executed, and he or she shall give information to be
instituted for all offenses against violations of the ordinances, or against
the laws of the state, committed within the limits of the city.
(KRS 95.740) (1980 Code, § 130.2-5)
§ 32.25 MAYOR.
   (A)   Mayor; election, term; qualifications. The Mayor shall be elected by
the qualified voters of the city for a term of four years. He or she shall have
the same qualifications as a member of the City Commission.
(KRS 86.180)
   (B)   Mayor pro tem. In the absence of the Mayor, the City Commission shall
elect a Mayor pro tem from its own members. The Mayor pro tem shall not perform
the functions of the Mayor unless the regular Mayor has been absent from the
county for at least three days, or is unable to discharge his or her duties.
(KRS 86.190)
   (C)   Duties and powers of Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor shall see that the laws and ordinances of the city are
enforced and observed.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require written information from any city officer
upon any subject relating to the duties of that officer.
      (3)   The Mayor shall be the head of the city police, and may command
them in the performance of their duties. He or she shall be a conservator of
the peace, and when he or she considers it necessary in order to enforce the
laws of the city, save life or property, or quell riots or mobs, he or she may
summon into service any of the citizens, either civil or military, and in such
cases he or she shall be present and command in person. The City Commission
shall, by ordinance, prescribe fines and penalties for disobedience of the
Mayors orders and summons.
      (4)   The Mayor shall perform any other duties imposed by ordinance.
(KRS 86.200) (1980 Code, § 130.1)
§ 32.26 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city the office of “City Manager”.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be the chief executive officer of the city and
exercise those executive powers and duties delegated to him or her by ordinance
and statute. He or she shall enforce the City Manager plan, city ordinances and
all applicable statutes. Subject to approval of the City Commission, the City
Manager shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly administration of the
functions of city government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Any
delegation of the City Manager’s duties or responsibilities to subordinate
officers and employees shall be made by ordinance, except that all bonds,
notes, contracts and written obligations of the city according to ordinance or
resolution shall be made and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the city.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have all duties set forth in KRS 83A.150,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Being responsible to the Board for the proper administration of all
duties imposed upon him or her by ordinance;
      (2)   Recommending to the Board, subject to any statute, ordinance or
contract which relates to the appointment, tenure or removal of any employee,
the appointment and when necessary for the good of the service, the removal of
subordinate employees and officers of the city; provided, however, no officer
or employee of the city shall be appointed or removed except through action by
the Board;
      (3)   Preparing the budget and submitting it to the Board and being
responsible for its administration after adoption;
      (4)   Preparing and submitting to the Board as of the end of each fiscal
year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
city for the preceding year;
      (5)   Keeping the Board advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city and making recommendations as he deems desirable;
      (6)   Maintaining a liaison with related units of local government
respecting inter-local contracting and joint activities;
      (7)   Supervising all departments of city government and the conduct of
all city officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction and requiring
each department to make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he
or she deems desirable; and
      (8)   Performing other duties required of city executive authorities by
statute or required of him or her by the Board not inconsistent with KRS
83A.150.
   (D)   The City Manager shall exercise leadership in implementing a fair
system of effective personnel administration and shall administer the
provisions of the city’s Personnel Policies and Procedures, Position
Classification Plan and Employee Compensation Plan as previously adopted. All
employees shall perform their duties subject to the direction of the City
Manager or his or her designee.
   (E)   The City Manager shall attend all meetings of the Commission and shall
keep the Commission informed of the affairs of the city and shall recommend to
the Commission such actions as may be necessary or expedient for the welfare of
the city.
   (F)   The City Manager shall examine all proposed contracts to which the
city may be a party and it shall be the duty of the City Manager to see that
all terms of any contract to which the city is a party are fully performed to
the extent of the city’s legal obligation thereunder. The City Manager shall
confer with the City Attorney concerning legal matters.
   (G)   The City Manager shall be the general purchasing agent for the city,
and except where specific provisions to the contrary are made by law or by the
Commission, he or she shall make all purchases of supplies, materials and
equipment authorized by the City Commission in the manner prescribed by and
subject to the limitations imposed by law.
   (H)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the preparation of all tax
levy ordinances for passage in order to collect all taxes in a timely fashion.
   (I)   The City Manager shall keep current accounts showing at all times the
fiscal condition of the city, including the current and anticipated expenses,
appropriations, cash on hand and anticipated revenues of all municipal funds
and accounts, and he or she shall see to the collection of all money due the
municipality.
   (J)   The City Manager shall keep a current inventory showing all real and
personal property of the city and its location, and shall be responsible for
the oversight of the care and custody of all such property, including
equipment, buildings, parks and all other city property, which is not by law
assigned to some other officer or governmental body for care and control.
   (K)   The City Manager shall oversee the publication of all notices,
ordinances or other documents required by law to be published, and to prepare
or cause to be prepared, all reports which the city or any of the officials
thereof are required by law to prepare.
   (L)   The City Manager shall prepare and have custody of municipal records
required by law to be kept by the city and not by a specific officer. Where the
law makes it the duty of a specific officer to keep or maintain records, the
City Manager shall make available to such officer all necessary clerical
assistance for the preparation of such records and shall make available a place
for the custody of such records. In compliance herewith, the City Manager shall
make available to the Clerk stenographical clerical assistance necessary for
the preparation of the journal of commissioner meetings and the record of
ordinances and all other documents which by law the Clerk is required to keep.
   (M)   Where the law requires or provides for certification of any records or
documents by any officer of the city, the City Manager shall cause such records
or documents to be properly prepared and presented to such officer for his or
her signature.
   (N)   The City Manager shall be ex-officio City Collector and City
Comptroller, unless such offices or either of them are duly filled by
appointment and he or she shall perform the duties of each such office in the
absence of such appointment to either of them.
   (O)   The City Manager shall cause to be kept a complete set of maps and
plats showing the location of all city utilities, and other municipal
properties, all streets and other public places and all lots or parcels of land
subdivided according to law.
   (P)   The City Manager shall maintain an office in the City Hall and shall
devote his or her full time in the performance of his or her duties as may be
required by the City Commission. In the event that the City Manager shall be
absent from the city or incapacitated from performing the duties of his or her
position, the Mayor shall act as City Manager during such absence or
incapacity.
   (Q)   The City Manager shall be selected by the Commission based on the
level of his or her qualifications in the following general areas: training/
experience; economic development; knowledge of police; knowledge of grants and
related subjects; knowledge of water and sewer service; and budget/finance. In
addition, he or she must have a bachelor’s degree in a field of study related
to city management and may be required to have such other executive and
administrative qualifications as may be established by the Commission from time
to time.
   (R)   The City Manager shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by
majority vote of the City Commission as part of the annual budgetary process.
In addition, the City Manager shall be entitled to such fringe benefits as are
offered to all other city employees.
   (S)   The City Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and may be
removed only by a majority of all Board members subject to the procedure set
forth in KRS 83A.150(8).
(Ord. 130.2-3-94, passed 3-28-1994)
§ 32.27 CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   Authorization. Pursuant to KRS 83A.087, there are hereby authorized
Citation Officers, subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Powers. Citation Officers shall not have the powers of police officers
to make arrests or carry deadly weapons, but may issue notices of violations
and/or citations as authorized upon observation of violations of city
ordinances.
   (C)   Citation procedures. The procedures for issuing citations by Citation
Officers shall be as provided in KRS 431.015 and by the ordinances of the city.
Standard citations forms will be utilized by all Citation Officers appointed
pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Uniform. Each Citation Officer appointed pursuant to this section
shall be readily identifiable by the public as a Citation Officer by a uniform
or other identifying characteristics/identification as designated by the City
Manager. Citation Officers shall immediately identify themselves as Citation
Officers to any member of the public while enforcing any ordinance of the city.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be a limitation on the power of a
Citation Officer to make an arrest as a private person as provided in KRS
431.015, that is, when a felony has been committed in fact and the Citation
Officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person being arrested has
committed said felony. This section shall not be the exclusive means for
enforcement of city ordinances, and Citation Officers are not limited to the
use of a citation and/or notice of violation, but may swear to a complaint,
criminal or otherwise, in lieu of a notice of violation or a citation.
      (2)   In an effort to gain compliance with state statutes and city
ordinances, all departments responsible for enforcement shall, in most cases,
first attempt to gain compliance through inspection, notification, granting of
responsible time to comply and allowing for exhaustion of administrative
remedies. When all responsible efforts have failed, certain employees
including, but not limited to, Citation Officers designated by this section,
may issue citations.
   (F)   Citation Officer as Code Enforcement Officer. Whenever the term “Code
Enforcement Officer” is used or referred to in any previously enacted ordinance
of the city as the person designated to enforce said ordinance, the Citation
Officer shall be designated as the Code Enforcement Officer and shall have all
powers and duties of the Code Enforcement Officer as set forth in any
previously enacted ordinance, subject to the limitations of the powers of a
Citation Officer as set forth in this section and the state statutes.
(Ord. 130.2-4-03, passed 5-12-2003)
CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM
§ 32.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center.
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational or learning event that
provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been approved by
the administrator.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 32.36 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified
in KRS Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a City Officials
Training Program, effective January 1, 2013 and thereafter, to make available
incentive payments as specified by this subchapter to the elected city
officials, including the Mayor and all members of the City Commission for
obtaining education and training as required under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 32.37 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $300 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city. The training incentive payment shall be awarded to
the city official for the completion of a training unit during the calendar
year. The training incentive payment awarded shall be the base training
incentive payment multiplied by the training incentive multiplier earned by the
city official. The city official shall accumulate no more than one training
incentive multiplier per calendar year of continuous service and in which the
said city official completes a training unit, up to a maximum of four training
incentive multipliers. The city official shall not be paid more than one
training unit per calendar year multiplied by the applicable training incentive
multiplier.
   (B)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive payments
for four training units (such as, one training unit multiplied by four training
incentive multipliers) in each calendar year following the fourth year,
provided that the official continues to earn a training unit each subsequent
calendar year.
   (C)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the official from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years,
and said official’s training incentive multiplier shall be reset to one the
following year.
   (D)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall be
permitted to carry forward a maximum of 15 hours to apply to the earning of a
training unit in the following calendar year.
   (E)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year not later
than 60 days after presenting said proof to the City Manager.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 32.38 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the City Manager (or
other designated official responsible for budget administration).
Alternatively, and subject to the constraints and appropriations established by
the city’s annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official
for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon
presentation of proof to the City Manager (or other designated official
responsible for budget administration) that the official has received credit
for the course.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 32.39 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Officials Training Program for the city shall be administered
by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center, which shall be
responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this
subchapter, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and shall
notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the number of
training units earned by a city official during his or her continuous service
as a city official within the city.
   (B)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying for
credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city government.
In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying courses by the
administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory duties of
cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal finance
and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this ordinance. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 32.40 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Chapter
337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under
KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum
compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and may be
repealed or modified by the city at any time.
   (B)   The training incentive payment amount established in the ordinance
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 230.10-02-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES; CODE OF CONDUCT
Section
   
33.01   Personnel policies adopted
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   The personnel policies of the city are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 230.8-4-97, passed 4-28-1997; Ord. 230.7-11-00, passed 11-13-2000)
CHAPTER 34: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Policies and Procedures
   
34.01   Method of purchasing
   
34.02   Grievance procedures; discrimination on the basis of handicapped status
   
34.03   Review of industrial building revenue bond projects
   
34.04   Access to public records
   
34.05   County Emergency Operations Plan
   
34.06   Property assessment and reassessment moratoriums
Investment Policy for the City
   
34.20   General policy
   
34.21   Scope
   
34.22   Investment objectives
   
34.23   Investment Authority
   
34.24   Prudent person rule
   
34.25   Authorized investments
   
34.26   Diversification of investments
   
34.27   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
34.28   Safekeeping and custody
   
34.29   Collateral
   
34.30   Investment reporting
   
34.31   Audit
   
34.32   Investment policy adoption
GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 34.01 METHOD OF PURCHASING.
   The city shall revert to the method of purchasing in effect prior to
December 28, 1979 and the Procurement Code adopted on December 28, 1979 be
abolished, effective with passage of this order.
(Ord. 80-1, passed 11-10-1980)
§ 34.02 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES; DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAPPED
STATUS.
   (A)   The attached procedures shall be the “grievance procedures” for anyone
who believes he or she has been discriminated against by the city, based on
handicapped status with respect to federally funded programs.
   (B)   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the executive Authority of the city.
   (C)   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court
directives or additional federal and state regulations.
   (D)   This section and attached procedures shall become effective when
adopted and published, as required by law.
(Ord. 960.2, passed 9-24-1984)
§ 34.03 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL BUILDING REVENUE BOND PROJECTS.
   (A)   All applications to the city for industrial revenue bond financing for
projects for which such financing is authorized by KRS 103.200 shall be
submitted to the city and review by the city acting through its City
Commission, and if approval by the Oversight Committee is required by KRS
Chapter 103, recommended to the Oversight Committee according to the procedure
hereinafter set out.
   (B)   Applications to the city shall be made in writing on the same
application forms prescribed and adopted by the Oversight Committee for
application to said Committee for review. Such application forms shall be filed
with the Mayor of the city not less than three business days prior to the
meeting of the City Commission, at which the inducement resolution will be
presented for first reading (provided, however, that any applications in
process, or which may be submitted on the same day as the initial or any
subsequent reading of his or her, shall be permitted to proceed simultaneously
herewith).
   (C)   The applicant shall notify the local Chamber of Commerce and any other
group which has filed a written request with the Mayor of the city for
notification of the filing of such application, in writing, on the same day the
application is filed with the Mayor of the city. The notice shall briefly
describe the project; give the location of the project, state the amount of the
proposed bond issue; give the date of the City Commission meeting at which the
inducement resolution will be presented; and inform the Chamber of Commerce or
such other group of its opportunity to comment on the project. A copy of the
notice or notices shall be filed with the Mayor of the city prior to first
reading of the inducement resolution. The City Commission shall consider any
comments received as a result of such notice or notices prior to second reading
of the inducement resolution.
   (D)   Inducement resolutions shall receive two readings by the City
Commission. Not less than seven days prior to the second reading of an
inducement resolution, the applicant shall advertise, in a newspaper which
qualifies under KRS Chapter 424 for legal publication by the city, notice of
the City Commission meeting at which the inducement resolution will be
considered for second reading. The notice shall include: a statement that the
City Commission will consider at the meeting authorization for industrial
revenue bonds to finance the project; the date, time and place of the meeting;
the name of the applicant; the type and location of the project; and a
statement that members of the public will have an opportunity to comment on the
project and the bond issue at the meeting.
   (E)   The City Commission will also review applications made by cities in
the county to the extent required by the regulations of the Oversight
Committee.
   (F)   During any City Commission meeting at which an inducement resolution
for a project covered by the resolution is considered, a reasonable opportunity
shall be given for the public to provide comments concerning the bond issue.
   (G)   (1)   For any project for which an inducement resolution receives
passage on second reading in accordance with the procedure set out in this
section, the city will notify the Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee
in writing of such passage, and include in the notification a statement
outlining the benefits that the project will provide for the city and
surrounding area, and indicating why the project should be approved by the
Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee.
      (2)   The meeting of the Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee at
which a project, so recommended by the city for approval, will be considered by
the Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee shall be attended by a
designated representative of the city. In the absence of any specific
designation of such representative by the city, the Mayor of the city shall
designate the representative of the city to attend meetings on behalf of the
city when necessary. Such representative shall be prepared to explain the
position of the city relative to the project and the bond issue.
   (H)   The procedures herein set out shall apply only to those projects which
require the approval of the Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee.
(Ord. AG-86, passed 9-22-1986)
§ 34.04 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City Commission of Franklin, Kentucky.
      COUNTY. The Fiscal Court of Simpson County.
      CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having
personal custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal
custody of most of the public records is the City Clerk.
      OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. For Franklin, shall be the City Clerk of the City.
      LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY. Abbreviated as LPA.
      PERSON. A human being who makes a bodily appearance before the office of
the custodian and makes a request for inspection of public records.
      PUBLIC CITY. Every city and city governing body, Commission, school
district board, special district board, municipal corporation, court of
judicial agency, and any board, department, commission, committee subcommittee,
ad hoc committee, council or agency thereof.
      PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes,
discs, recordings or other documentary materials regardless of physical form or
characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or
retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records that
have been excluded by division (C) below.
      REQUEST. An oral petition by any person; or at the option of the
custodian, the completion of a written application that clearly states the
specific public record or records that are desired for inspection and/or
application.
      REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of public records, which shall not exceed the actual cost thereof
and shall not include the cost of staff time required.
   (B)   The following procedures shall be followed by persons making a request
to inspect public records and by the official custodian and/or custodians of
those public records.
      (1)   Initial request with immediate inspection.
         (a)   As defined in division (A) above, and subject to the limitations
set forth in division (C) below, any person desiring to inspect or copy the
public records of a governmental unit shall make a request and complete written
application for such records at the office of the official custodian during
regular office hours, Monday through Friday of each week, except during legal
holidays.
         (b)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in
compliance with the open records law and that the requested records are
immediately available, the custodian shall deliver such records for inspection.
         (c)   Suitable facilities shall be made available for the inspection,
and no person shall remove original copies of public records from the offices
of any public agency without the written permission of the official custodian
of the record.
         (d)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the
public records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When written
copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request and advance
payment of the prescribed fee as defined in division (A) above.
      (2)   Referral to proper custodian. If the Clerk of the city does not
have custody or control of the public record or records requested, the
Secretary shall so notify the applicant and shall furnish the name and location
of the custodian of the public record, if such facts are known by the
Secretary.
      (3)   Public records not immediately available. If the public records are
in active use, in storage, or not otherwise available, the official custodian
shall immediately so notify the applicant and shall designate a place, time and
date for inspection of the public records, not to exceed three days (excepting
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) from receipt of the application, unless
a detailed explanation of the cause is given for further delay as well as the
place, time and earliest date on which the public record will be available for
inspection and/or duplication.
      (4)   Refusal of unreasonable requests. If the application places an
unreasonable burden in producing voluminous public records or if the custodian
has reason to believe that repeated requests are intended to disrupt other
essential functions of the public agency, the official custodian may refuse to
permit inspection of the public records; however, refusal under this section
must be sustained in writing by clear and convincing evidence and placed in the
appropriate files.
      (5)   Time limitation; denial of inspection.
         (a)   The public city, upon any written request for records made under
this Act, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any such request whether to comply with
the request and shall notify in writing the person making the request, within
the three-day period, of its decision. Any response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian, or under his or her Authority; and it shall
constitute final action of the agency of the city.
         (b)   If, upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney
General reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or
in part, the request for inspection, the agency of the city may institute
proceedings within 30 days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the circuit
court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request or if the
public city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General’s opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the public city shall notify the Attorney General of such
action.
      (6)   Miscellaneous regulations.
         (a)   No official of the governmental body shall willfully conceal or
destroy any record with the intent to violate the provisions of the Act or of
these rules and regulations.
         (b)   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to
him or her or in which he or she is mentioned by name and upon presentation of
appropriate identification, subject to the provisions of division (C) below.
   (C)   The following public records are excluded from the application of the
Act; and these rules and regulations shall be subject to inspection only upon
order of a Court of competent jurisdiction:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy. Examples include acquisition, relocation and
rehabilitation files on families disclosing income or other personal data;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency of the city and
compiled and maintained for scientific research, the regulation of commercial
enterprise, including mineral exploration records, un- patented secret
commercially-valuable plans, appliances, formulae or processes which are used
for the making, preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or
materials which are trade commodities obtained from a person and which are
generally recognized as confidential, or for the grant or review of a license
to do business, and if openly disclosed would permit an unfair advantage to
competitors of the subject’s enterprise. This exemption shall not, however,
apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other
statute;
      (3)   Any and all other exceptions permitted under any applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation and/or ordinance; and
      (4)   To the extent that there is a conflict between any provision and
any applicable law, the law shall govern and/or control whether or not this
section is more or less restrictive.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 34.05 COUNTY EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   The County Emergency Operations Plan is officially approved and
adopted effective the date of this executive order as shown herein.
   (B)   The conveyance of official approval and adoption of the County
Emergency Operations Plan through the executive order shall remain continuously
in effect from the date of this executive order as shown herein, or until
superseded by a subsequent executive order promulgated in accordance with KRS
39B.030(3), KRS 39B.060(2), KRS 39C.050(3), applicable Kentucky Administrative
Regulations, and planning guidance issued by the State Division of Emergency
Management.
   (C)   A copy of the official approved and adopted County Emergency
Operations Plan, including this executive order, shall be placed on file for
public inspection during regular office hours in the city office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 34.06 PROPERTY ASSESSMENT AND REASSESSMENT MORATORIUMS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a program for the granting of property
assessment or reassessment moratoriums for the rehabilitation of residential
single-family units of real property located in the area of the city, defined
as the Harristown Revitalization area or other housing project areas approved
by the city for rehabilitation programs funded by either Community Development
Block Grant or HOME Programs.
   (B)   To be eligible, the cost of rehabilitation, including materials and
labor, must equal or exceed $20,000.
   (C)   REHABILITATION is defined as the process of returning an existing
structure to a state of utility through repair or alteration which makes
possible an efficient contemporary use.
   (D)   This moratorium program shall be administered by the City Manager.
   (E)   All moratoriums shall be for a period of five years, and each shall
become effective on the assessment date next following the issuance of the
moratorium certificate.
   (F)   Applications shall be made to the Property Valuation Administrator for
a property assessment or reassessment moratorium certificate as follows.
      (1)   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Department of
Revenue and shall be filed in the manner prescribed by the City Manager.
      (2)   The application shall be filed with the City Manager within 30 days
before commencing the restoration.
      (3)   The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   A general description of the property;
         (b)   A general description of its proposed use;
         (c)   The general nature and extent of the restoration, repair,
rehabilitation or stabilization to be undertaken;
         (d)   A time schedule for undertaking and completing the project; and
         (e)   If the property is a commercial facility, the application shall,
in addition, be accompanied by a descriptive list of the fixed building
equipment which will be a part of the facility and a statement of the economic
advantages expected from the moratorium, including expected construction
employment.
   (G)   The Property Valuation Administrator and the City Manager shall
maintain a record of all applications for a property assessment or reassessment
moratorium. The Property Valuation Administrator shall assess or reassess the
property within 30 days of receipt of the application. This assessment shall be
the value for which taxes are not to be raised for five years.
   (H)   The applicant shall have two years in which to complete the
improvements.
   (I)   Any application not acted upon by the applicant shall become void
after two years from the date of application and shall be purged from the files
of the Property Valuation Administrator and the City Manager.
   (J)   On the assessment date next following the expiration, cancellation or
revocation of an assessment or reassessment moratorium, property shall be
assessed on the basis of its full fair cash value.
   (K)   The applicant shall notify the Property Valuation Administrator and
the City Manager when the project is complete, and the person designated by the
Property Valuation Administrator shall then conduct an on-site inspection of
the property for purposes of verifying improvements. Only after the project is
complete and the improvements verified shall the moratorium certificate be
issued by the Property Valuation Administrator.
   (L)   Definitions and/or provisions for interpreting this section shall be
as set out in KRS Chapter 99, specifically KRS 99.595 to 99.605, relating to
property assessment and reassessment moratoriums.
   (M)   The publication requirement for this section shall be satisfied by
publication in summary.
(Ord. 220.16, passed 3-24-2003)
INVESTMENT POLICY FOR THE CITY
§ 34.20 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security of principal
while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming to all
state statutes and the city regulations governing the investment of public
funds.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.21 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual
financial report, and include all moneys in the following:
      (1)   General;
      (2)   Water/sewer;
      (3)   Sanitation;
      (4)   Cemetery operating;
      (5)   Cemetery perpetual care;
      (6)   C.D.B.G. Revolving Fund;
      (7)   Payroll and Clearing Fund;
      (8)   Swimming pool; and
      (9)   Municipal aid.
   (B)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees of fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city’s primary investment objectives.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.22 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following.
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city’s
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designated with the objective attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.23 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city’s investment program is hereby
delegated to the City Manager. The City Manager shall have the Authority,
subject to the disapproval of the governing body, to establish additional
specific written procedures for the operation of the investment program which
are consistent with this investment policy. The procedures shall include
explicit delegation of Authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures established by the
City Manager. The City Manager shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The City
Manager shall maintain all records related to the city’s investment program.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.24 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the City Manager in the performance of his or her
duties as manager of the city’s funds shall be evaluated using the “prudent
person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under
prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The City Manager, acting in accordance with written procedures and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security’s performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the governing body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.25 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only in the
following types of investments instruments.
      (1)   Authorized investments instruments.
         (a)   Obligations of the United States and its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchased agreements
is taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
         (b)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations based by the full faith and credit of the United States or a United
States government agency, including, but not limited to, United States
Treasury;
         (c)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including, but not limited to:
            1.   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
            2.   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
            3.   Bank for Cooperatives;
            4.   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
            5.   Federal Land Banks;
            6.   Federal Home Loan Banks;
            7.   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
            8.   Tennessee Valley Authority.
         (d)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest bearing
accounts of any bank which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation and which are collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
         (e)   Bankers’ acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
         (f)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency.
         (g)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of the commonwealth and of
its agencies and instrumentalities.
         (h)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
         (I)   Shares of mutual funds, each of which shall have the following
characteristics.
            1.   The mutual fund shall be an open-end diversified investment
company registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.
            2.   The management company of the investment company shall have
been in operation for at least five years.
            3.   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this section.
      (2)   Limitations on investment transactions. With regard to the
investments authorized in this section, the following limitations shall apply.
         (a)   The amount of the city’s funds invested at any one time in the
categories of investments authorized in divisions (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(g) and (A)
(1)(g) and (A)(1)(I) above shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of funds
invested on behalf of the city.
         (b)   No investment shall be purchased for the city on a margin basis
or through the use of any similar leveraging technique, including so-called
“derivatives”, which accrue value from some underlying asset(s).
         (c)   The city will prior to the beginning of each fiscal year,
solicit quotes from every bank who has a local office in Franklin for the
maintenance of a master clearing, or sweep account. The Bank who provides the
highest percentage quote of the Federal Fund Rate (i.e., 105% of ------ and the
like) will be awarded the sweep account for the next fiscal year.
   (B)   The account’s rate of interest shall be pegged to the Federal Funds
Rate, as reported by the Wall Street Journal each Friday, from the following
Thursday’s “near closing rate”. The account’s interest shall be calculated each
week based on an average daily balance of the account and applied from the
prior Friday’s posted interest rate from the Wall Street Journal.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city to transfer said funds to operating and
reserve accounts of the various funds maintained by the city, as become
necessary for current operations. The city should average ten checks or less
each month in withdrawals from the account.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.26 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city’s investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument, and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   The city’s funds shall be diversified by security type and
institution. With the exception of fully insured or fully collateralized
investments, and except for authorized investment pools, no more than 30% of
the city’s total investment portfolio shall be invested in a single security
type or with a single financial institution.
   (C)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city’s funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than ten years from the date of purchase; however, the city may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to
exceed (____) years to maturity.
   (D)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding ten years, if
maturity of investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the
expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.27 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services to the city. In addition, a list
shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by
creditworthiness, who maintain an office in the commonwealth.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Manager with information
sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution (must have offices physically
located in the state) and answer any and all inquiries posed by the City
Manager or the governing body, including the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements;
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial conditions;
      (3)   Written memorandum of agreement for the deposit of public funds or
trading resolution as appropriate;
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration; and
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the city
Manger to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of the city
funds if the city funds on deposit at any time will exceed 5% of the
institution’s capital stock and surplus.
   (D)   The City Manager shall evaluate the financial capacity and
creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/dealers prior to the
placement of the city. The City Manager shall conduct an annual review of the
financial condition and registrations of financial institutions and broker/
dealers and based on the review, make any recommendations regarding investment
policy or program changes determined to be necessary.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.28 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets shall
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City
Manager and any other officers or employees of the city authorized to engage in
investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by the
governing body. Collateralized securities, such as repurchase agreements shall
be purchased using the delivery bs. payment procedure. Money market mutual
funds used for investments must provide for independent custodians of their
portfolios and delivery vs. payment on their portfolio securities. The
safekeeping procedures utilized in the city’s investment program shall be
reviewed annually by the independent auditor.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.29 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (B) below, it is the policy of the
city to require that all cash and investments maintained in any financial
institution names as a depository be collateralized. In order to anticipate
market changes and provided a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 110% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest. Collateral shall be limited to the types of instruments
authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Manager. The right of collateral substitution is
hereby granted.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.30 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall prepare and submit to the governing body a
quarterly report regarding the status of the city’s investment program. As to
each investment, the report shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited;
      (2)   Type of investment;
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable;
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis;
      (5)   Purchase date, purchase price and maturity date; and
      (6)   Current market value of the investment.
   (B)   In addition, the report shall explain the quarter’s total investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations.
   (C)   The quarterly report shall also summarize recent market conditions,
economic developments and anticipated investment conditions, and indicate any
areas of policy concern and suggested revisions of investment strategies.
Copies of the report shall be submitted to each member of the City Commission.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.31 AUDIT.
   In connection with the audit of city funds conducted by an independent
certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of the city’s
investment program, including internal controls and procedures, and the results
of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the city’s
audit.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
§ 34.32 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city’s investment policy shall be adopted by order of the
governing body and shall become effective on the date set forth in the order.
The policy shall be reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate. Any
amendments to this policy must be made by order of the governing body.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the monies so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The City Manager may
take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing portfolio to the
provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature liquidation of any
current investment.
(Ord. 210.3-12-94, passed 12-29-1994)
CHAPTER 35: TAX, FEES, FUNDS AND FINANCE
Section
General Fees, Funds and Finance
   
35.01   Cold checks; fee
   
35.02   Monthly statements of accounts and financial disclosure
   
35.03   Establishment of Revolving Loan Fund
   
35.04   Kentucky Business Investment Program
Revolving Loan Fund; Handling and Dispersal
   
35.15   Goals and objectives
   
35.16   Organization
   
35.17   Eligibility requirement
   
35.18   Loan review factors
   
35.19   Terms and conditions
   
35.20   Application procedures
   
35.21   Selection and approval of loans
   
35.22   Loan closing procedure
   
35.23   Other
Taxes Established
   
35.35   Tax assessment
   
35.36   Tax payment
   
35.37   Goodnight Memorial Library; ad valorem tax
   
35.38   Property tax on motor vehicles and boats having a situs
   
35.39   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
35.40   Abandoned urban property; ad valorem tax
   
35.41   Property tax rate
   
35.42   Property assessment and reassessment moratoriums for certain properties
located in historic districts established
GENERAL FEES, FUNDS AND FINANCE
§ 35.01 COLD CHECKS; FEE.
   All checks returned to the city for “insufficient funds” or “no account” or
any other reason, not the fault of the city, will be assessed the cost of $25
to defray the expense incurred in handling and processing said returned checks.
(1980 Code, § 1030.4) (Ord. 1030.4A-1999, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 35.02 MONTHLY STATEMENTS OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall provide to the City Commission a monthly
financial report, which shall be submitted on the second monthly meeting
immediately following the month for which the report has been prepared.
      (1)   The financial report shall include a budgeted income statement,
balance sheet and accounts payable trial balance for the following funds:
         (a)   Sanitation Fund;
         (b)   Cemetery Board Fund;
         (c)   Perpetual Care Fund;
         (d)   Swimming Pool Fund;
         (e)   Municipal Aid and Severance Funds;
         (f)   General Fund (including general government, Police Department,
Fire Department, Health Department and appropriations); and
         (g)   Water and Sewer Fund.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing accounts, if any additional funds,
departments or companies are created, monthly reports shall also be submitted
for those additional funds or departments.
   (B)   The monthly financial report shall also include the current income for
all departments, year to date income and annual budgeted income.
   (C)   In addition to the above referenced monthly financial reports, the
City Commission shall also be provided with a monthly report setting forth the
following:
      (1)   Bad debts in water and sewer, including charge-offs showing the
customer’s name, service location, account number, date of last payment, final
bill date, final bill with late charge, application of meter deposit and
forwarding address;
      (2)   A water system report, including total gallons pumped, gallons
billed, gallons not billed, net gallons lost and percent of lost to gallons
billed;
      (3)   A monthly reconciliation report for water and sewer accounts
receivable shall be submitted, including the amount billed for all water,
sewer, sanitation, state tax, school tax and other charges with total current
billing, arrears, gross billing, district billing, district arrears,
adjustments, penalties, gallons pumped, gallons billed, gallons not billed and
gallons lost in the total percentage of loss;
      (4)   A bank reconciliation report shall be submitted, which will include
all accounts on deposit as of the next preceding end of the month, showing the
bank, account title, account number, date reconciled and balance;
      (5)   There shall also be submitted a report reflecting the water and
sewer depreciation fund for the end of the month next preceding, which shall
include a report of all transactions, check number, date of payable and to whom
paid, deposits from whom received, disbursements, an daily balance. This report
shall also show the fiscal year totals of deposits, disbursements and balances
for each year beginning with the fiscal year 1990-1991 through the current year
until such time as the space on the current report requires the elimination of
the earliest beginning year. A permanent file of these records shall be
generated and stored on computer diskettes for future reference; and
      (6)   Should the city have any ongoing projects or create any specially
funded projects, grants or jointly participating projects with another entity,
the records of all such projects shall be maintained on personal computer
diskettes, and monthly reports of such projects shall be submitted with the
monthly financial report to the City Commission.
(Ord. 210.1-11-93, passed 11-22-1993)
§ 35.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   A Revolving Loan Fund, called the City Revolving Loan Fund (RLF), be
created utilizing the proceeds from principal and interest repayments earned on
projects funded by the State Community Development Block Grant Program.
   (B)   The purpose of the Revolving Loan Fund shall be for economic
development and shall be used to assist existing and prospective business and
industries in activities which will lead to the creation or retention of jobs.
   (C)   Policies and procedures be developed regulating the operation of the
RLF. Such policies and procedures shall address the formation and composition
of a review board, eligibility and loan selection criteria, loan selection and
approval process, closing process, the monitoring of outstanding loans, the
establishment of processing fees and development of an application form. Other
concerns may be addressed as desired.
   (D)   All monies earned shall be accounted for in a separate fund and used
for the purposes as set forth in the policies and procedures.
   (E)   Proceeds from the repayment of principal and interest on such projects
funded by the RLF shall be deposited in the Revolving Loan Fund to be used to
assist future prospects.
(Ord. 210.2-12-93, passed 12-30-1993)
§ 35.04 KENTUCKY BUSINESS INVESTMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 154.32-010 through 154.32-100, the city is required to
participate in the Kentucky Business Investment Program to the extent local
industries apply for state aid.
   (B)   The Kentucky Business Investment Program requires a local governmental
agency to provide a 1% tax incentive to state businesses that apply for and are
accepted into the Kentucky Business Investment Program.
   (C)   The City Commission desires to promulgate a procedure regulating
certain procedures regarding the program, including, but not limited to,
notification provisions and the filing of appropriate forms and/or returns to
ascertain the amount of the incentives.
   (D)   All terms used in this section shall have the definitions as provided
in KRS 154.32-010.
   (E)   The approved company as that term is defined under KRS 154.32-010(6)
shall provide to the city the tax incentive agreement between the approved
company and the authority (as that term is defined in KRS 154.32-010(8)).
   (F)   On or before the activation date, as that term is defined in KRS
154.32-010(1), the approved company shall provide to the city’s Finance
Director the documentation as provided in KRS 154.32-030(1)(f).
   (G)   The approved company shall provide to the city the activation date,
along with notification to the city of its intent to activate the tax
incentives, in writing, not less than 30 days nor more than 120 days prior to
the actual activation date.
   (H)   The approved company shall make available to the city all of its
records pertaining to the economic development project, including, but not
limited to, payroll records, records relating to eligible costs, and any other
records pertaining to the economic development project that the city may
require during the period of time for which the tax incentive agreement is in
effect.
   (I)   The city incorporates herein by reference all provisions relating to
the termination of the Kentucky Business Investment Program as set forth in KRS
154.32-010 et seq.
   (J)   If an approved company elects to deduct the state tax assessment from
each payment of wages to an employee with the Authority or Commonwealth, the
company may do the same with the city. However, if the approved company is
required to or elects a reimbursement of state or local taxes in the aggregate
after they have been paid to the respective jurisdiction, then the company
shall receive reimbursement from the city, once per annum, after making the
request, in writing, on the forms provided by the city, with said reimbursement
being due and payable not later than 60 days after the approved company files
the written request for reimbursement. For purposes of this division,
regardless of which method the company uses for reimbursement/deduction with
the Authority or Commonwealth, whether by election or otherwise, the company
shall use the same method with the city. Further, provided, that said
reimbursement request shall be filed not later than two years from the date
that the approved company’s annual tax returns are initially due, without
regard to any extensions received or allowed.
   (K)   Regardless of the election made pursuant to division (J) above, the
approved company shall file, quarterly, with the city, the Franklin Employers
Quarterly Return provided by the city, specifically addressing the issues
related to the KBI Program. A copy of said form is attached to Ord. 221.10-06-
2014. In addition, the company shall file a quarterly reconciliation of the
city’s occupational license fees in a format substantially similar to the
sample reconciliation form attached to Ord. 221.10-06-2014. If the company
fails to comply with the provisions of this division (K), the company (or its
representatives as the case may be) shall be subject to the penalty provisions
set forth in §
114.080 of the city’s occupational licensing and gross receipts ordinance(s),
as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 221.10-06-2014, passed 6-23-2014)
REVOLVING LOAN FUND; HANDLING AND DISPERSAL
§ 35.15 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   A goal of the City Commission is job creation and retention. The City
Revolving Loan Fund represents one effort to achieve this goal.
   (B)   Since the monies in this fund are limited, objectives of the City
Commission are to: approve projects that are sound and capable of repaying
their loan; and to maximize earnings through investment. These objectives will
help maintain and ensure the growth of the Fund for use by future perspective
businesses.
   (C)   Since all or a portion of the funds in this program were made
available through the State Community Development Block Grant, close adherence
to requirements of that program and specific grant agreements with the
commonwealth is required. Special attention must be given when funds to be used
were received by the city prior to closeout. Such federal requirements as
Davis-Bacon and LMI provisions may apply.
   (D)   The following policies and procedures are adopted to ensure a
consistent and thorough review of all proposals in order to achieve the above
objectives.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.16 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment of Revolving Loan Fund Board.
      (1)   The City Commission will establish a Revolving Loan Fund Board,
composed of five members. The RLF Board will be selected to include members
representative of a cross section of area leaders with experience and expertise
in business finance and economic development. Members will be appointed by the
Mayor with approval by the City Commission. Removal of members is by the
recommendation of the Mayor and approval of the City Commission. One member of
the Board is to consist of a member of the City Commission, and one member of
the Board shall consist of a member of the Franklin-Simpson Industrial Board.
      (2)   The RLF Board will establish, evaluate and carry out policy,
establish loan conditions and recommend disposition of loans under the RLF.
      (3)   The Mayor shall serve as Loan Fund Manager and will act liaison
between potential borrowers and the RLF Board of Directors. The Mayor may
delegate his or her Authority or request assistance as is needed.
      (4)   In addition, three members of the Board will serve as a Loan Review
Committee. This Loan Review Committee will, with the assistance of the RLF
Manager, review all loan requests and make recommendations to the full Board
regarding the various requests.
   (B)   Processing fees. A fee of $250 shall be charged to cover the cost of
processing an application. This fee shall be levied only on those applicants
desiring to submit an application for consideration. No charge shall be made
for initial contact or preliminary discussions required for the development of
a possible application.
   (C)   Technical and Managerial Assistance. Due to their involvement and
knowledge of other sources of financing, the Barren River Area Development
District shall provide technical and managerial assistance and secretarial
support to the RLF Board and potential applicants. Technical assistance shall
consist of: working with applicants and other loan participants to develop a
feasible project,; seeking additional loan sources which may be available,; and
reviewing proposals and advising the RLF Board and Manager of merits of the
loan.
   (D)   Servicing of loans. The City Revolving Loan Fund will not directly
engage in the servicing of its portfolio. The Board will negotiate with outside
sources, preferably the first lender, who possess the necessary skills to
service the loans.
   (E)   Monitoring of loans. The RLF Manager will conduct a monitoring visit
of each project at least twice a year to determine if there are any problems
that jeopardize the loan. The RLF and Servicing Agency will keep each other
informed about problems they encounter. If they so desire, the Board may
request periodic financial reports from the company as a condition of loan
approval.
   (F)   Solicitation of loans. The City Revolving Loan Fund will recruit
potential borrowers through several methods. The RLF Manager will actively
solicit participation through private lenders, referrals from the State
Development Finance Authority, Community Development Block Grant program,
Barren River Area Development District Council, and other sources as
appropriate. These development agencies will be in a position of making RLF
program information available to various enterprises which they have contact.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.17 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Eligible applicants.
      (1)   The applicant must be a registered sole proprietorship, partnership
or corporation (profit or non-profit) established for the purpose of doing
business in the city.
      (2)   The applicant must possess good character and reputation. Character
references will be required. References may include creditors, past employers
or others who possess knowledge of the applicant.
   (B)   Eligible projects.
      (1)   Loans/grants for acquisition and assembly of land for industrial or
commercial use;
      (2)   Loans/grants for acquisition of properties with re-development
potential for industrial or commercial use;
      (3)   Loans for the startup and/or expansion of industries in the city;
      (4)   Loans for the rehabilitation and renovation of usable vacant
building for specific industrial or commercial use; and
      (5)   Grants for off-site development to assist industries or commercial
businesses.
   (C)   Ineligible projects.
      (1)   Rolling stock, i.e., trucks, forklifts, automobiles;
      (2)   Speculative building;
      (3)   Loans to retire existent debt;
      (4)   Working capital;
      (5)   Business activity located outside the boundaries of the city; and
      (6)   Any other projects determined not to be in the best interest of the
citizens of the city.
   (D)   Eligible costs. Loans and grants made under the RLF can be used to
finance:
      (1)   Land costs. All costs related to the acquisition and development of
land for industrial or commercial use;
      (2)   Building costs. All costs associated with acquisition, construction
and/or rehabilitation of buildings for industrial or commercial use, including
leasehold improvements;
      (3)   Machinery and equipment costs. All related costs associated with
the acquisition and installation of machinery and equipment; and
      (4)   Facility development costs. Costs for facility development
necessary for project completion (i.e., water lines, sewer lines, access
roads).
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.18 LOAN REVIEW FACTORS.
   The following factors will be considered in the loan review process for all
RLF loan applications.
   (A)   Highest priority will be given to projects creating at least one job
per every $5,000 of RLF monies. Except under exceptional circumstances, the RLF
will not consider projects where the ratio exceeds $10,000 per new long-term
job created. Jobs used for purposes of this ratio are those existing at the end
of two years after startup. Construction jobs in the building of the facility
are not included.
   (B)   Highest priority will be given to projects in which RLF funds do not
exceed 33% of total project costs. Except under exceptional circumstances, the
RLF will not consider projects which exceed 50% of total project costs.
   (C)   No RLF loans shall be made if funding is otherwise available from
private lenders on terms that would allow for the successful completion of the
project.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.19 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The RLF shall exercise flexibility in negotiating terms with the
participating financial institutions.
   (B)   The following conditions, however, are set as minimum guidelines.
      (1)   All rates and terms for the RLF funds will be based upon a
financial analysis conducted under the Community Development Block Grant
necessary and appropriate criteria.
      (2)   The RLF reserves the right to sell their interest in a loan package
where the Board deems advisable.
      (3)   The RLF would accept convertible subordinated debt, with or without
deferral provisions for either principal and/or interest.
      (4)   Liens will be taken covering all assets. A subordinated position
will not be accepted where an inordinate amount of risk is evident.
      (5)   Personal guarantees may be required of owners who control at least
20% of the company.
      (6)   The RLF will impose the following maximum term requirements and
restrictions on loans. Maximum length of terms:
         (a)   Real estate: 20 years;
         (b)   Machinery and equipment: ten years, or the usual life of the
equipment; and
         (c)   Inventory/other: Five years.
      (7)   Rates will be negotiated by the RLF Board, but in no case shall it
be less than 5%.
      (8)   In negotiating terms for potential borrowers, terms will not be
made that cannot be feasibly met. A thorough credit analysis will be undertaken
prior to negotiating loan terms.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.20 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initial meeting. The initial meeting that the RLP Manager will conduct
with a potential borrower will be to determine eligibility, generally discuss
the project, and explain the application process and needed information. At
this point, projects which are ineligible or which do not look strong should be
referred to proper funding sources or discouraged from applying. The Loan
Manager will indicate that the following items will be required from the
applicant prior to the next meeting:
      (1)   A brief description of the request, including total project costs,
amount of loan requested, purpose of loan and terms requested;
      (2)   Three-year historic financial statements, if applicable;
      (3)   Financial data, five-year pro forma projections;
      (4)   An economic impact statement, including the number and type of jobs
to be retained and/or created at the end of two years;
      (5)   A market/business plan delineated past performance and assumptions
used as the basis for sales projections; and
      (6)   Any other items requested of applicant by the RLF Manager or Board.
   (B)   Loan application process.
      (1)   The Loan Fund Manager and the potential borrower will take a first
cut at structuring the loan package. The borrower will be issued full
information on the loan selection criteria and full information regarding
standard conditions and federally-required assistance and conditions.
      (2)   Upon the determination of applicant eligibility, the borrower will
complete the loan application form. In conjunction with these cited standard
forms, the RLF Board of Directors shall request the following information, much
of which will be included as part of the applicant’s business plan: Note: The
standard DLG approval for use request. Exhibit G-6 (excluding certification)
can be used in this procedure.
         (a)   Financial information, where relevant, which shall include:
            1.   Current audited financial statement, including balance sheets,
income statements, with auditors’ footnotes and supporting statements for the
applicant’s three most recent fiscal years, where applicable, and audited
consolidated financial and income statements, with auditors’ footnotes, of any
parent company for the three most recent fiscal years, also where applicable;
            2.   Most recent interim financial statements of the applicant,
and, if applicable, of its parent company, certified by officers of the
respective companies and maintained current during the loan application
process; and
            3.   Project pro forma balance sheets, income statements, cash flow
and supporting statements of the applicant. Such statements and balance sheets
should reflect the applicant’s ability to repay debt principal out of earnings
within the first five years of operation.
         (b)   Such non-financial information as the RLF Board of Directors
deems necessary to substantiate the pro forma projections. These may include,
but not be limited to:
            1.   Estimates, firm quotations, receipts, contracts, orders,
invoices, leases or equivalent documentation from architects, engineers,
contractors, subcontractors, materials suppliers, lessors or others involved in
the sale, lease or construction of fixed assets, if any, for applicant’s
project, including schedules of implementation;
            2.   Any backup information regarding the applicant’s operating
costs, including projected employment by job category and applicable wage rate,
cost and availability of raw materials and energy;
            3.   General information about company management capabilities,
including resumes of top management and detailed marketing strategies;
            4.   Such additional information as the RLF Board of Directors may
require regarding collateral, appraisals, valuations of non profit assets and
guarantees;
            5.   Completed applications; and
            6.   Signed statement of assurances.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.21 SELECTION AND APPROVAL OF LOANS.
   (A)   Application review and evaluation. Upon completion of the RLF full
application, the RLF Loan Review Committee will carry out a loan review and
submit its recommendation for approval or disapproval and the basis for such
recommendation to the full Board. The RLF will then consider the recommendation
by the RLF Loan Review Committee. The Board may solicit or allow additional
comment or advisement if it so desires. The Board shall then make its
recommendations to the City Commission to approve or deny the loan. The RLF
Board of Directors will utilize and fully consider all loan selection criterion
to ascertain whether the proposed project is consistent with the economic
development strategy for the city. The RLF Board will determine whether all
loan requirements can be met and shall apply their financial experience and
judgment to the project having considered all available information.
   (B)   Loan Fund Board approval.
      (1)   The RLF Loan Review Committee shall submit a copy of the Approval
for Use Request to DLG (including certifications) for all projects in which
program income funds are being utilized. DLG will assure project eligibility
and national objective criteria and will respond within 15 days of receipt.
      (2)   Upon final approval, the RLF Board Chairperson will forward the
entire package to the RLF’s bank with request to draw down funds to the
borrower.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.22 LOAN CLOSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The RLF will closely coordinate all loan closing activity with the
first participation lender to avoid duplication and to hold closing costs to a
minimum.
   (B)   The RLF working with the participating lender will make all necessary
preparations for the closing.
   (C)   After scheduling the date of closing, the RLF or participating lender
will prepare the information and documentation for closing, including:
      (1)   RLF agreement;
      (2)   Participation agreement between RLF and the first position lender;
      (3)   Promissory, mortgage notes or other loan agreement;
      (4)   Security documents to be executed and recorded; and
      (5)   Check from the RLF.
   (D)   All closing costs incurred will be paid by the borrower at the time of
closing.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
§ 35.23 OTHER.
   (A)   The RLF full loan application form is attached to the ordinance from
which this section was derived, and in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   Every six months, the RLF Manger will monitor the projects in
the RLF portfolio, evaluate the loans made, and determine progress made in
obtaining goals and objectives citing in the RLF Administration Plan. Factors
such as jobs created, jobs retained, potential for future job creation, tax
revenues created, types of jobs created, minority and/or women’s businesses
assisted, and the ratio of RLF dollars to jobs retained/created will be
considered in this evaluation process. Results of all project evaluations will
be presented to the RLF Board and the City Commission in an annual report of
RLF activity.
      (2)   All assurances as specified in Community Development Block Grant
regulations shall be agreed to by the borrower in order to receive funds. No
applications shall be approved unless the statements of assurances is properly
signed.
      (3)   Investment of idle funds shall be in conformance with state
statutes as they relate to investment practices of local governments.
   (C)   (1)   Since the moneys that help fund this Revolving Loan Fund come
from repayment of loans made from grants received from the Community
Development Block Grant program, each activity funded under the RLF program
must meet at least one of the three national objectives identified in Title I
of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 as amended in 1983,
hereinafter referred to as the Act (§ 104(b)(3)).
      (2)   The three objectives are:
         (a)   Benefit to low and moderate income persons;
         (b)   Prevention or elimination of slums or blight; and
         (c)   Meeting community development needs have a particular urgency.
   (D)   Up to 20% of the repayment may be used for administrative purposes
related to administration of the RLF. An administrative plan is attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
(Res. passed 12-27-1993)
TAXES ESTABLISHED
§ 35.35 TAX ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The annual county tax assessment of the county for property situated
within the corporate limits of the city as finally determined for county tax
purposes be and the same is adopted by the city as a basis of all ad valorem
tax levies ordered or approved by the Commission for the first fiscal year
commencing after the county assessment date.
   (B)   The office of city assessor and city board of equalization of
assessment are hereby abolished.
   (C)   The City Clerk is authorized each year to obtain a copy of the county
assessment record which represents the assessment of property within the city
and the city shall pay the cost of securing the copy.
(1980 Code, § 220.3-1)
§ 35.36 TAX PAYMENT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a certified copy of the city's assessment from the
Simpson County Property Valuation Administrator (PVA), the Board of
Commissioners shall then proceed to fix the rate of taxation, due dates, and
penalty and interest rates. In addition to the penalties fixed by the Board of
Commissioners, the Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish by
regulation or otherwise, additional penalties or fees to recover legal fees and
costs in the collection of past due ad valorem taxes. The City Attorney and
Finance Director are hereby authorized to enter into installment payment
agreements with taxpayers.
   (B)   After a certified copy of the County Assessment Roll which relates to
the city has been accepted by the Board of Commissioners and the rate of
taxation fixed for the year, the Finance Director shall prepare the Property
Tax Assessment Roll for each person and property assessed, stating therein the
name of the person owing the tax, the amount thereof, and the year for which
the tax rate is due. It shall be the duty of the Finance Director to list for
taxation any and all property that may be omitted by the County Assessment Roll
and shall enter same in the volume of tax receipts.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall account for taxes collected by the city,
whether the same be taxes, penalties, interest, or costs, and the Finance
Director shall thereupon deposit such funds showing separately the amount of
taxes, penalties, interest and costs so paid.
   (D)   In addition to any and all other remedies provided in this section,
the Finance Director is authorized, with the assistance of the City Attorney,
to file in the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction an action to collect
any ad valorem tax, penalty, interest, or any other charge related thereto or
necessary, including court costs and a reasonable attorney's fee, to enforce
any provision of this section. The Finance Director is granted authority to use
his or her best judgment and discretion in bringing such claims for past due ad
valorem taxes and the Finance Director is authorized to bring such actions in
the name of the city. The Finance Director is further authorized to establish
by regulations additional penalties and fees to recover legal fees and costs
incurred in filing any claim for past due ad valorem taxes.
(1980 Code, § 220.3-2) (Ord. 2018-013, passed 8-27-2018)
§ 35.37 GOODNIGHT MEMORIAL LIBRARY; AD VALOREM TAX.
   There shall be imposed by the city, an ad valorem tax, pursuant to state
statutes for the support of the Goodnight Memorial Library, which tax shall be
at the rate of $0.05 per $100 of assessed property valuation. The tax shall be
levied against each item of property subject to general ad valorem city taxes,
and shall be levied and collected at the same time and in the same manner as
are general as valorem city taxes. The failure of any tax payer to pay the tax
shall be penalized in the same manner and to the same extent as failure to pay
general city ad valorem taxes.
(1980 Code, § 220.3-3)
§ 35.38 PROPERTY TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND BOATS HAVING A SITUS.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an ad valorem tax of 0.1970 per $100 of the
assessed valuation of motor vehicles and boats having situs in the city, as of
January 1, 2014 and for each year thereafter as listed in the Tax Assessment
Ledger compiled by the Property Valuation Administrator of the county.
   (B)   All monies collected from the tax levied in this section shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 132.487 and 134.800 to 134.820 and such other
applicable statutes, the aforesaid tax shall be assessed under a centralized
tax system and collected by the Clerk of the county. It is further provided
that for the collection of this tax on behalf of the city, the Clerk of the
county shall be paid 4% of monies collected on vehicle taxes. Payment to the
city by the Clerk shall be governed by KRS 134.815 and other applicable
statutes.
(Ord. 220.11-09-97, passed 9-22-1997; Ord. 220.11-09-2014, passed 9-22-2014)
§ 35.39 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions located within
the corporate limits of the city for the 2014 tax year and all subsequent
years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all deposits maintained by such
financial institutions, as authorized by KRS Chapter 136.
   (B)   Said taxes shall be due and payable by financial institutions at the
same time and in the same manner as all other property taxes, as allowed by the
state.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior and subsequent.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid by
the due date established by the City Commission shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to the guidelines of the state and the same penalty and
interest charges as other unpaid city property taxes under the applicable
provisions of Ord. 220.3.
   (E)   All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city and shall be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission through the annual budget
process.
(Ord. 220.13-9-97, passed 9-22-1997; Ord. 220.13-09-2014, passed 9-22-2014)
§ 35.40 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY; AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification
of real property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used herein, an
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY means any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot
or parcel of ground located within the boundaries of the city which has been
vacant or unimproved for a period of at least one year and which:
      (1)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin-infested or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, is unfit for its intended use;
      (2)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for
the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or
other vermin;
      (3)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years; or
      (4)   Is located within a development area established under KRS 65.7049,
KRS 65.7051 and KRS 65.7053.
   (B)   The rate of ad valorem taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties
is $1.50 on each $100 of assessed value.
   (C)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall determine each year which
properties located within the city are abandoned urban properties, and shall
prepare and furnish a list thereof to the City Clerk, City Finance Officer and
the County Property Valuation Administrator prior to January 1 of each year.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) below, a property
classified by the Code Enforcement Officer as abandoned urban property as of
January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban property for such tax year. If the
owner repairs, rehabilitates or otherwise returns the property to productive
use so that the property is no longer abandoned urban property, the owner shall
notify the city, by and through its Clerk, which shall, if it finds the
property is no longer abandoned urban property, notify the County Property
Valuation Administrator to strike the property from the list of abandoned urban
properties as of the succeeding January 1.
      (3)   No later than May 1 of each year, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall mail, by regular first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned
urban property, as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property
Valuation Administrator, a notice that the property has been classified as
abandoned urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who
believes that the property has been incorrectly classified may appeal said
classification to the Code Enforcement Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be
in writing and shall be made no later than June 1 of that year. The Code
Enforcement Board of Appeals shall afford the owner the opportunity for a
hearing. If the Code Enforcement Board of Appeals finds that the property was
incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall cause the property
to be removed from the list of properties so classified.
(Ord. 220.3-03-2011, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 35.41 PROPERTY TAX RATE.
   (A)   There is now levied for the property tax year 2022, and all subsequent
years, an ad valorem tax of 12.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation on all
taxable real property within the jurisdiction, and an ad valorem tax of 12.0
cents per $100 assessed valuation on all taxable tangible personal property and
merchandise inventory within the jurisdiction.
   (B)   The due date for the payment of the ad valorem taxes shall be November
30, 2018 and November 30 of all subsequent years.
   (C)   All taxpayers whose taxes are not paid by November 30 of the tax year
shall incur a penalty equaling 10% of the tax bill.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty set forth in division (C) above, interest
shall begin accruing on the unpaid taxes beginning on January 1, 2019, and
January 1 for each succeeding year's tax bill, at the rate of 6% per annum.
   (E)   The Finance Director shall have the authority to set additional
penalties if warranted for collection. If the Finance Director or Board of City
Commissioners determines that more formal collection procedures are required in
order to collect the taxes, the city shall be reimbursed by the taxpayer for
all fees and costs associated with collection including, but not limited to
court costs and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 220.17-10-2011, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 220.17-09-2013, passed 9-23-2013;
Ord. 220.17-09-2014, passed 10-10-2014; Ord. 2015-014, passed 8-27-2015; Ord.
2016-011, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2017-014, passed 9-27-2017; Ord. 2018-04,
passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 2019-019, passed 8-29-2019; Ord. 2020-012, passed 9-14-
2020; Ord. 2021-020, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-020, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 35.42 PROPERTY ASSESSMENT AND REASSESSMENT MORATORIUMS FOR CERTAIN PROPERTIES
LOCATED IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   There is hereby established a program for the granting of property
assessment or reassessment moratoriums for qualifying units of real property
located in the Downtown Historic District of the city as defined below:
         (a)   Downtown Historic District. The Downtown Historic District shall
be considered the area on the map attached to Ordinance 2018-006 as Exhibit 1
and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Property outside the Downtown Historic District area may be
considered if the property is 50 years old or older. In this situation, where
the property is outside the "downtown" area and is 50 years old or over, each
application must be approved by the Board of City Commissioners.
      (3)   To be eligible, a residential building in the Downtown Historic
District area must have been in existence for 25 years and must be used to
provide independent living facilities for one or more persons.
      (4)   For a commercial building to qualify in the Downtown Historic
District area, it must be 25 years or older and must have as its primary
purpose and use the operation of a commercial business enterprise.
   (B)   Guidelines for improvements. Improvements to property listed on the
National Register of Historic Places must follow guidelines prescribed in the
"Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation" and/or the
guidelines established or approved by the Board of City Commissioners.
   (C)   Administration. The administering agency for the moratorium program
allowed by this section shall be the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Duration of moratorium; effective date. All moratoriums shall be for a
period of five years, and each shall become effective on the assessment date
next following the issuance of the moratorium certificate.
   (E)   Application. Applications shall be made to the City Manager or his/her
designee for a property assessment or reassessment moratorium certificate as
follows:
      (1)   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Department of
Revenue and shall be filed in the manner prescribed by the City Manager or his/
her designee.
      (2)   The application shall be filed with the City Manager or his/her
designee at least 30 days before commencing the restoration.
      (3)   The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   A general description of the property;
         (b)   A general description of its proposed use;
         (c)   The general nature and extent of restoration, repair,
rehabilitation or stabilization to be undertaken;
         (d)   A time schedule for undertaking and completing the project; and
         (e)   If the property is a commercial facility, the application shall
also contain a descriptive list of the fixed building equipment which will be a
part of the facility and a statement of the economic advantages expected from
the moratorium, including expected construction employment.
   (F)   Inclusion of prior qualifying property. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section to the contrary, applications may be received and
moratorium certificates may be issued for otherwise qualifying property on
which renovation was initiated prior to the enactment of this section, but
subsequent to January 1, 2015. Such applications shall otherwise comply with
the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Record of applications. The Property Valuation Administrator and the
City Clerk shall maintain a record of all applications for a property
assessment or reassessment moratorium and shall assess or reassess the property
within 30 days of receipt of the application. This assessment shall be the
value for which taxes are not to be raised for five years. In the event of a
property to which renovations began prior to the adoption of this section, the
Property Valuation Administrator and City shall use the most recent assessment
prior to January 1, 2015, and taxes are not to be raised for five years
following approval.
   (H)   Time limit on improvements. An applicant for a property assessment or
reassessment moratorium shall have two years in which to complete the
improvements unless granted an extension by the City Manager or his/her
designee, and approved by the Board of City Commissioners. In no case shall the
application be extended beyond two additional years. This provision shall not
preclude normal reassessment of the property.
   (I)   Purging inactive applications. An application made pursuant to
division (E) above not acted upon by the applicant shall become void two years
from the date of application and shall be purged from the files of the Property
Valuation Administrator and the City Clerk.
   (J)   Assessment of expired, canceled or revoked property. On the assessment
date next following the expiration, cancellation or revocation of an assessment
or reassessment moratorium, property shall be assessed on the basis of its full
fair cash value.
   (K)   Inspecting of completed projects; issuance of certificate. An
applicant under this section shall notify the City Manager or his/her designee
when the project is complete, and the City Manager or his/her designee shall
then conduct an on-site inspection of the property for purposes of verifying
improvements. Only after the project is complete and the improvements verified
shall the moratorium certificate be issued by the City Manager or his/her
designee.
   (L)   Transfer; assignment. An assessment or reassessment moratorium
certificate may be transferred or assigned by the holder of the certificate to
a new owner or lessee of the property with written approval of the Board of
City Commissioners.
   (M)   Definitions. Definitions for interpreting this section shall be those
outlined in KRS Chapter 99 relating to property assessment and reassessment
moratoriums and/or ordinances of the Franklin City Code relating to historic
districts.
(Ord. 2018-006, passed 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Findings
   
36.03   Purpose and authority
   
36.04   Definitions
   
36.05   Memorandum of Agreement with Barren River Area Development District
Standards of Conduct
   
36.10   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.12   Withdrawal from participation
   
36.13   Receipt of gifts
   
36.14   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
36.15   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.16   Political solicitation
   
36.17   Patronage
   
36.18   Complicity with or knowledge of others' violations
   
36.19   Meeting attendance
   
36.20   Social media
   
36.21   Email
   
36.22   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.23   Post-employment restriction
   
36.24   Nepotism prohibited
Financial Disclosure
   
36.30   Who must file
   
36.31   When to file statements, amended statements
   
36.32   Form of statement of financial interests
   
36.33   Control and maintenance of the statement
   
36.34   Contents of the financial interest statements
   
36.35   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
36.40   Board of Ethics
   
36.41   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Franklin Code of
Ethics.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depend upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and the public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence
is imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the standards which
the citizens rightfully expect them to comply with while conducting their
duties.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, limited liability company, or any legal entity through which
business is conducted for profit.
   BOARD. The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics which is vested by this
chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city's
Code of Ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   CITY BUSINESS. Any discussion of specific city issues that go beyond general
information.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the city, which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose, except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   CONSULTANT. An independent contractor or professional person, or entity
engaged by the city or advising a city officer, and in a position to influence
a city decision or action or have access to confidential information.
   CUSTOMER or CLIENT.
      (1)   Any person or entity to which a person or entity has supplied goods
or services during the previous 24 months, having a total value greater than
$1,000; or
      (2)   Any person or entity to which an officer or employee's outside
employer or business has supplied goods or services during the previous 24
months having a total value greater than $1,000, but only if the officer or
employee knows or has reason to know the outside employer or business supplied
the goods or services.
   DOMESTIC PARTNER. An adult, unrelated by blood, with which an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence, and shares basic living expenses.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time, part-time, seasonal, or temporary,
and whether paid or unpaid, who is employed or provides service to the city.
The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of
their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, parent, stepparent, child,
stepchild, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   FINANCIAL BENEFIT. Includes any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment, hospitality, gratuity, or
any promise of any of these, or anything else of value. This term does not
include campaign contributions authorized by law.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a direct or
indirect financial benefit has been, will be, or might be received as a result
of it.
   HOUSEHOLD. Includes anyone whose primary residence is in the officer or
employee's home, including nonrelatives who are not rent payers or staff.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, a child or step-child
who is not emancipated and who resides in the officer's or employee's
household, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the officer's or
employee's spouse or domestic partner, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   City Commission member;
      (3)   City Clerk:
      (4)   City Manager:
      (5)   Police Chief:
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080: or
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency or joint body of
any governmental agency who has been appointed to the governing body of the
agency by the city.
   OFFICIAL ACT. Any legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary
act of any public official or employee of the city or any agency, board,
committee or commission thereof.
   PERSONAL BENEFIT. Includes benefits other than those that are directly
financially advantageous. These include financial benefits to immediate family
members, business associates, as well as non-financial benefits to these people
and to oneself, including such things as reputation and the success of one's
career.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a personal benefit
has been, will be, or might be obtained by certain action or inaction with
respect to it.
   SOCIAL MEDIA. Understood to be content created by individuals, using the
internet. Examples of social media include Facebook, biogs, Instagram, RSS,
YouTube, Second Life, Twitter, Linkedln, and Flickr.
   SUBORDINATE. Another official or employee over whose activities an official
or employee has direction, supervision or control.
   SUBSTANTIAL DEBTOR OR CREDITOR. Any person or business owed more than
$10,000, except from debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or
the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person,
family or household purposes.
   TRANSACTION. Any matter, including but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the city, the sale or purchase of real estate by the city, and
any request for zoning amendments, variances, or special permits pending before
the city, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official act or
action.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.05 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT WITH BARREN RIVER AREA DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The city, by and through its Board of Commissioners hereby readopts, and
incorporates herein by reference that certain Memorandum of Agreement by and
between the City of Franklin and the Barren River Area Development District
dated January 5, 1995, which sets forth the duties of the Barren River Regional
Ethics Board.
(Ord. 2019–012, passed 4-22-2019)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have interest in a business or engage in a business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted (or unsolicited)
privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any immediate
family member has a financial interest, including but not limited to:
         (a)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or business;
         (b)   A customer or client; or
         (c)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or
her family member.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
      (6)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than $200 during the past
election cycle (this amount includes contributions from a person's immediate
family or business as well as contributions from an entity's owners, directors,
or officers, as well as contributions to the officer or employee's party
committee or non-candidate political committee).
      (7)   A non-governmental civic group, social, charitable, or religious
organization of which he or she, or his or her immediate family member, is an
officer or director.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action and inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, an immediate family member, an outside employer, or a
business as defined by divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any
business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than
any gain could reasonably expect to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure pursuant to §
36.12.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.252, no officer or employee of the city or any
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for a city office,
before an appointed officer filed as a candidate for a city office, before an
appointed officer was appointed to a city or agency office, or before an
employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any contract
entered into by the city or city agency officer or employee before he or she
became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or
is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall apply
to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition of division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city agency because of price, limited supply, or other
specific reasons.
         (d)   A finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into as violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.12 WITHDRAWAL FROM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from acting on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city, if acting on the matter, or
failing to act on the matter, may personally or financially benefit any of the
persons or entities listed in §
36.10(C). Such an officer or employee should join the public if the withdrawal
occurs at a public meeting or leave the room if it is a legally conducted
closed meeting (executive session) under KRS 61.810 and KRS 61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires the public announcement, on the
record, of the reason for withdrawal.
   (C)   Ongoing conflict. An officer or employee whose outside employment or
other outside activity or relationship can reasonably be expected to require
more than sporadic withdrawal must resign or cease such outside employment or
activity. An officer or employee should not begin employment or an activity or
relationship that can reasonably be expected to require more than sporadic
withdrawal. If a prospective officer or employee is in such a situation, he or
she should not accept the position with the city.
   (D)   Request to withdraw. If an officer or appointed board member is
requested to withdraw from participation in a matter for the reason that he or
she has a conflict of interest, by:
      (1)   Another member;
      (2)   A party to the current matter; or
      (3)   Anyone else who may be affected by a decision relating to this
matter, the member must decide whether to withdraw on the official record. If
the member decides not to withdraw, the challenging member(s) may file a
complaint with the Ethics Board.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.13 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from this provision. Examples of
these items include:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives;
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city;
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, training, or fact-finding trips related to official government
business;
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business;
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques, and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public service;
      (6)   Informational, promotional, and educational items.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.14 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy;
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.15 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal or financial interest or the personal or financial interest of
another person, group or business. Information shall be deemed confidential if
it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.16 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   (A)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not request, or
authorize anyone else to request, that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate participate, or not participate, in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution.
   (B)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not engage in any
political activity for the city, while on duty, or in uniform, using city
funds, supplies, vehicles, or facilities, in uniform, or during any period of
time during which he or she is normally expected to perform services for the
city, for which compensation is paid.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.17 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or the use of his or her
influence to obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any
political activity or contribution.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.18 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHERS' VIOLATIONS.
   No officer or employee may, directly or indirectly, induce, encourage, or
aid anyone to violate any provision of this Code. If an officer or employee
knows or has reasonable suspicion to believe that someone has violated this
Code, he or she is required to report it to the Ethics Board.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.19 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this Code to miss more
than one-third of the meetings in a 12-month period.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.20 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   City officials (including members of boards, commissions, etc.) can maintain
a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered personal, there
can be no mention of their status as a city official. Any mention of their
status as a city official potentially changes the nature of the page, requiring
record keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department of Library and
Archives retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to Open Records
requests.
   (B)   Elected city officials who want to interact with the community on
social media in their role as city official are required to maintain a separate
account. City officials will notify the City Clerk of any official page(s)
utilized. The City Clerk will maintain an updated list of official pages of
city officials.
   (C)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (D)   Elected city official pages shall clearly indicate that any content
posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure. Additionally,
guidelines, if any, shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
   (E)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be saved for a
time period of not less than one year.
   (F)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: "Thank you for your question. Please email me at (official email
address) or contact me at (phone number). I look forward to speaking with you."
   (G)   Elected officials shall not discuss issues pending before the
commission. Elected officials may illicit public input but shall not respond to
comments. Engaging in substantive conversations on social media could require
retention of the posts and may violate the Open Meetings Act if other elected
officials are also engaging in the discussion.
   (H)   City employees are bound by the city's social media policies in the
city's Personnel Policies and the city's Email, Social Media and Electronic
Communications Policy.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.21 EMAIL.
   (A)   City officials shall maintain an official email address and shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk. This must be separate from their
personal email account.
   (B)   No city business shall occur through a personal email account.
   (C)   City officials shall retain emails according to the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives schedule for emails. City officials shall
direct any record keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.22 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.23 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall appear or practice
before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which the
officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or city
agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.24 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer;
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency; or
      (6)   Advancement of an immediate family member to an office or position
of employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No office or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of an immediate family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of an immediate family member, except that this
prohibition shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on
or participating in the development of a budget which includes compensation for
a family member, provided that the immediate family member is included only as
a member of a class of persons or a group, and the immediate family member
benefits to no greater extent than any other similarly situated member of the
class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.30  WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Barren
River
Regional Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the city Planning and Zoning Commission, Board of
Adjustment, Code Enforcement Board, Industrial Board, and Electric plant Board;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city and any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $7,500.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.31 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS, AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement between the city and the
Barren River Area Development, the initial statements of financial interests
required by this section shall be filed with the Barren River Regional Board of
Ethics, c/o Barren River Area Development District Records Administrator no
later than 3:00 p.m., March 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 3:00 p.m. on March 1 each year, provided
that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly required to fill an office or position
with the city or a city agency shall file his or her initial statement no later
than 30 days after the date of appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable
extension of time for filing a statement of financial interest for good cause
shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.32 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics. The Board shall deliver to the city
a copy of the form for each officer and employee required to file the
statement, no later than February 15 of each year. The failure to deliver the
form shall not relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file the
statement.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.33 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENT.
   (A)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics shall be the official
custodian of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial
interest shall be maintained by the Board, or the Records Administrator
designated by the Board as custodian of public documents, available for public
inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the custodian, pursuant to the Kentucky Department of Library and Archives
schedule as follows:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of two years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of two years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.34 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interest shall include the following
information of the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer's officer, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse or domestic
partner;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income ( e.g. salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of$10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had any time during the preceding calendar year an interest of
$10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year;
      (9)   The name and address of any substantial debtor or creditor owed
more than $10,000 except debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence
or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for
person, family or household purposes.
      (10)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had an interest
at any time during the preceding calendar year;
      (11)   Each source by name and address of campaign contributions having
an aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source,
excluding contributions received from family members, received by the filer or
any member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.35 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Barren River Board of Ethics, or the Records Administrator, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than prescribed by the Board.
The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a
date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise
the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
Board in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender fails or
refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.40 BOARD OF ETHICS.
   Pursuant to the memorandum of Agreement setting forth the Barren River
Regional Board of Ethics, all authority for the establishment of procedures for
formation and maintenance of the Barren River Board of Ethics appropriate
thereto are hereby delegated provided:
   (A)   That the Board shall comply with all terms and conditions as set forth
in the Act establishing a Code of Ethics for cities;
   (B)   That any hearings or related procedures shall comply with the Kentucky
Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of Evidence;
   (C)   That any regulation adopted by the Board governing its procedures
shall be consistent with the Kentucky Open Records law; and
   (D)   That the city shall bear its proportionate share of any costs for
investigations. hearings, preparation of findings, and the issuance of any
advisory opinions by the Board;
   (E)   That no member of the Regional Board of Ethics shall hold a position
in any local government or be subject to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.41 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics or any other agency
or official of the city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative
to an actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Barren River Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine
imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by
the city in a civil action if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under the
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or
gain which the officer or the employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city on a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause of removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer
or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 4-22-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE; COLLECTION
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION
      
53.   [RESERVED]
      
54.   RATES AND CHARGES FOR WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
55.   SEWER USE; USER CHARGE SYSTEM
      
56.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   City’s intent to retain ownership, control of and responsibility for
the sanitary sewer and drainage systems of the city, by not becoming part of
the sanitation district
   
50.02   Water usage during drought conditions
Fire Hydrants
   
50.15   Damaging prohibited
   
50.16   Opening fire hydrants
   
50.17   Exceptions
   
50.18   Permit to use fire hydrant
   
50.19   Obstructing fire hydrants
   
50.20   Notice of violation
   
50.21   Removal of materials
   
50.22   Duty to maintain
   
50.23   Permitted hydrants
   
50.24   Hydrant spacing
Water and Sewer Lines
   
50.35   [Reserved]
   
50.36   [Reserved]
   
50.37   [Reserved]
   
50.38   [Reserved]
   
50.39   Request for availability of water and/or sewer
   
50.40   Review of water and sewer plans
Fire Sprinkler Systems
   
50.55   New construction
   
50.56   Existing structures
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CITY’S INTENT TO RETAIN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL OF AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE SANITARY SEWER AND DRAINAGE SYSTEMS OF THE CITY, BY NOT BECOMING PART OF
THE SANITATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Commission, on behalf of the city, pursuant to all applicable
provision of KRS 220.135, as amended by the General Assembly, on or about April
1, 1994, by this section expresses its intention not to become a part of any
sanitation district and to retain ownership, control of and responsibility for
its sanitary sewer system and for its storm drainage system.
   (B)   The city by the adoption of this section acknowledges that it shall be
solely responsible for compliance with applicable regulations promulgated by
the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet.
(Ord. 820.2-8-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 50.02 WATER USAGE DURING DROUGHT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose of section. When conditions throughout the City Drinking Water
District create an increased likelihood that the anticipated demands cannot be
met and/or the water source is subject to harm, the City Commission will issue
a resolution stating that conservation of water is necessary and/or mandatory.
When the resolution is issued, the City Commission will set the level of
drought condition, as set forth below, which the citizens of the city are
required to follow. The resolution shall state the level of water conservation
which is in effect consistent with the levels set forth in this section, the
reasons why said level is in effect, and the length of time that the water
consumption restriction will be in effect. This section defines the specific
levels of water conservation, states when they shall come into effect, and
recites the restrictions placed on consumers when the restrictions are in
effect.
   (B)   Drought levels. There are four levels of water conservation
restrictions as follows:
      (1)   Level 1. When a Level 1 water shortage resolution is passed, all
city water users are encouraged to reduce their water use and to conserve water
to the maximum extent possible on a voluntary basis. These voluntary
restrictions shall not be used to limit any activities designed to prevent the
spread of fire or to save property from being destroyed by fire. Once the
resolution passes, this restriction shall take effect immediately.
      (2)   Level 2. When a resolution is passed declaring a Level 2 water
shortage, all of the city water users and/or persons and/or entities connected
to the city water distribution system shall be required to reduce their water
use and to conserve water to the maximum extent possible. These mandatory
restrictions shall not be used to limit any activities designed to prevent the
spread of fire or to save property from being destroyed by fire. Once the
resolution setting this level of conservation passes, this section shall take
effect immediately and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Residential. Watering lawns, washing vehicles, watering gardens
and filling swimming pool will be limited to the use by even numbered street
addresses on the days of Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while odd numbered
street addresses will be limited to the days of Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
only. For example: John Doe lives at 220 East Cedar. Therefore, John Doe can
only water his lawn on Monday, Wednesday and Friday until further notice.
         (b)   Golf courses. Irrigation of greens and tees should be reduced
and performed during non-daylight hours. Irrigation of fairways, roughs and
non-playing areas on the first nine holes on the course (or only nine holes in
the event the course is only a nine hole course) should be restricted to non-
daylight hours on Wednesday and Friday. Irrigation of fairways, roughs and non-
playing areas on the last nine holes of the course should be restricted to non-
daylight hours on Thursday and Saturday. Applications of fertilizer, herbicides
and pesticides should be performed no more than twice a week.
         (c)   Water-based recreation. Existing facilities shall not be
refilled, except for makeup water. Water based recreation should be voluntarily
reduced.
      (3)   Level 3. When a resolution is passed declaring a Level 3 water
shortage, all of the city water users and/or persons and/or entities connected
to the city water distribution system shall be required to adhere to the
following plan. These restrictions shall not be used to limit any activities
designed to prevent the spread of fire or to save property from being destroyed
by fire. Once the resolution passes, this section shall take effect immediately
and shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Household. Watering lawns, washing vehicles, watering gardens
and filling swimming pools shall not be allowed for any reason until further
notice.
         (b)   Golf courses. Irrigation of greens, tees, fairways, roughs and
non-playing areas shall not be allowed until further notice. Also applications
of fertilizer, herbicides and pesticides will not be allowed until further
notice.
         (c)   Water-based recreation. Water based recreation shall not be
allowed and existing facilities will not be allowed to refill until further
notice.
      (4)   Level 4. If the above listed efforts are insufficient to protect
the water source, additional measures will be imposed by resolution by the City
Commission. These measures may include emergency water rate increases, and
curtailment of water to business and industry.
   (C)   Table. For purposes of this section, a resolution setting water
restriction levels will be implemented in accordance with the following table:
 
Table 1: Implementation Criteria For Water Shortage Plan
Water Level 1 Implement Plan Level
0             Level 1
7             Level 2
14            Level 3
21            Level 4
1Water Level in Inches Below Top of Spillway
 
(Ord. 630.0-1999, passed 9-27-1996)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 50.15 DAMAGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage or
destroy any fire hydrant in the city water service area.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or open any
fire hydrant, on public or private property.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
50.16 shall not be applicable to:
   (A)   Any officer or employee of a public agency acting within the scope of
his or her employment and in the performance of his or her duties; or
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation or the agent or employee thereof who
has secured a permit under provisions of §
50.18.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001)
§ 50.18 PERMIT TO USE FIRE HYDRANT.
   The Water Distribution Superintendent or his or her designated
representative, may issue a permit to any person, firm or corporation to open
or use any fire hydrant referred to in §
50.16, subject to the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   The location of fire hydrant shall be designated on said permit.
   (B)   The duration of permit and use for which it is issued shall be
specified thereon.
   (C)   The permittee shall comply with all of the rules, regulations, orders
and ordinances of the local water district issuing water meters for said
hydrants.
   (D)   The permittee shall be responsible for damages to said fire hydrant
arising out of permittee’s use thereof.
   (E)   The permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers
or employees, from any and all claims by, damages to and causes of action of
third parties arising out of or resulting from the issuance of said permit or
the use of said fire hydrant.
   (F)    The permittee shall at time of issuance of said permit deposit with
the city the sum of $1,000 to insure permittee’s compliance with the terms and
conditions hereof. Said sum shall be returned to permittee upon the
termination, surrender or expiration of the permit, provided the permittee has
complied with all the terms and conditions of said permit and this subchapter.
Charges for the actual use of water at the current water rates, plus a $25 per
day hydrant maintenance fee and any applicable taxes and administrative fees
will be billed to the customer. If the hydrant is damaged or destroyed by the
permitee, the city will invoice the permitee for the cost of a new hydrant.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful to, by erection of a fence, placement of a living, dead
or imitation plants, or placement of any decorative device, to obscure from
view, damage, deface, obstruct or restrict the access to any fire hydrant or
any Fire Department connection, including fire hydrants located in public or
private streets and access lanes or on private property. It shall also be
unlawful to park any vehicle within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Codes Enforcement Officer shall issue notices of violation of §
50.19 to any property owner in violation of said section.
   (B)   The notice shall contain a description of the materials found to be in
violation, a direction to remove the materials within 15 days after mailing of
the notice, and a copy of §
50.19.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001)
§ 50.21 REMOVAL OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   If, 15 days after mailing the notice, the obstructions or
encroachments that constitute a violation are not removed, the code official
shall have the same removed.
   (B)   Any costs incurred in removing the obstructions or encroachments shall
be paid from the City Treasury and the City Manager shall institute appropriate
action in the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001)
§ 50.22 DUTY TO MAINTAIN.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner on which the hydrant is located
to maintain said property around the fire hydrant in a manner as to comply with
§
50.19.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001)
§ 50.23 PERMITTED HYDRANTS.
   (A)    All hydrants must be approved for use on a case-by-case basis by the
Water Distribution Superintendent prior to use by person or entity other than
the city or emergency personnel. Any person or entity shall obtain a permit
from the Water Distribution Superintendent prior to using any hydrant. The
permit shall specify the hydrant that may be used by the permittee.
   (B)   Equipment issued with the permit.
      (1)   The following items will be issued to permittee and shall be used
by permittee when using hydrant:
         (a)   A hydrant wrench;
         (b)   A hydrant meter with a two-inch outlet. Permittee will be
responsible to reduce the size as needed, but not changing any part of the
meter itself. The city shall record usage before and after permittee’s use for
billing. The permittee shall be liable to the city for all costs and billing
for water used during hydrant usage; and
         (c)   A backflow prevention device that shall remain attached to the
hydrant meter.
      (2)   The hydrant wrench, meter and backflow prevention device must be
returned to the city on the permit expiration date. The cost of a hydrant
wrench, meter and/or backflow prevention device that is issued to permittee and
lost or not returned by permittee will be billed to the permittee for
replacement. Any permittee found to be using a hydrant without the required
equipment attached to the hydrant shall forfeit the deposit posted pursuant to
this subchapter.
   (C)   Limitations. The City Water Department reserves the right to suspend
or revoke any issued permit. Water use may be suspended during periods subject
to freezing temperatures and/or drought and/or other conditions at the sole
discretion of City Water Department.
   (D)   Hydrant operating procedures.
      (1)   Remove hydrant nozzle cap.
      (2)   Attach metering device and hose and install brace support.
      (3)   Open hydrant slowly. It should take more than 60 seconds to fully
open to prevent surging on the water system. If possible, open completely to
shut off drip drain while hydrant is in use.
      (4)   The discharge end of the hose should not be inserted, under any
circumstances, into a tank or container underwater or laid on the ground to
make and lay in its own pool of water. There must be at all times an air gap
between the end of the water hose and the container.
      (5)   Upon filling the tank or upon completion of permitted use, close
hydrant valve.
      (6)   Remove metering device and hose.
      (7)   Replace nozzle cap.
      (8)   No assembly shall ever be left attached to the hydrant when the
hydrant is not actually furnishing water.
      (9)   No hydrant shall ever be left without the cap replaced and snugly
tightened.
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001; Ord. 2024-016 passed 6-10-2024)
§ 50.24 HYDRANT SPACING.
   (A)    New developments installing new water mains must include a fire
hydrant spaced every 500 feet. The type and model must be a six-inch fire
hydrant (AVK model 3160 or equivalent if model is discontinued) with a 36-inch
line bury depth.
   (B)   In addition, all new developments installing water lines and/or
hydrants must comply with all requirements of the city code of ordinances
including, but not limited to, the cross-connection prevention ordinance
(Chapter 52).
(Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
WATER AND SEWER LINES
§ 50.35 [RESERVED].
§ 50.36 [RESERVED].
§ 50.37 [RESERVED].
§ 50.38 [RESERVED].
§ 50.39 REQUEST FOR AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND/OR SEWER.
    No person or entity may construct additions and/or extensions to the
existing water or sewer system without first obtaining a letter for reservation
for water and/or sewer availability from the city. The city will respond in
writing within five days to the person or entity so requesting to either
approve or deny the request. Availability requests approved by the city will be
valid for two years from date of approval.
(Ord. 610.8-2000, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 50.40 REVIEW OF WATER AND SEWER PLANS.
    Upon submission of the plans for additions and/or extensions to the
existing water or sewer system for review, any person or entity so applying
must pay a fee of $700 each for water, sewer, and/or stormwater plans to the
city.
(Ord. 610.8-2000, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
§ 50.55 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. The city requires that all new construction of any
buildings that require fire sprinkler systems to be installed as determined or
required by local or state laws, regulations, ordinances or codes, or as
required by the local or state building or fire inspectors, must also install a
city-approved inline meter to measure flow and use of water conveyed through
said meter into the sprinkler system. The meter shall be purchased through the
city at the city’s cost plus 15%, or, alternatively, the meter shall be the
same make and model as those used by the city to ensure compatibility for
billing purposes.
   (B)   Approval of plans; submission for review by the Water Distribution
Superintendent.
      (1)   Prior to the installation of the meter to a fire suppression
system, plans shall be submitted to the Water Distribution Superintendent for
review and approval. All fire suppression systems must comply with all
applicable NFPA standards and local standards.
      (2)   Two copies of the plans, specifications and calculations shall be
submitted for review to the Water Distribution Superintendent. Reviewed plans
shall be signed off as conditionally approved by the Water Distribution
Superintendent for meter installation only if approved. One approved copy will
be returned to the submitter.
      (3)   All copies of the plans, specifications and calculations submitted
shall be signed and sealed by a state registered architect, fire protection
engineer and/or fire protection designer before the fire suppression contractor
installs the work. Plans and/or calculations which are not signed and sealed
will not be reviewed.
      (4)   The Water Distribution Superintendent’s conditional approval of the
fire suppression plans does not confirm or admit the accuracy of the plans or
the functionality of any part of the fire suppression system. The conditional
approval is for the installation of the meter only. Full responsibility for the
accuracy of the system design and calculations is the responsibility of the
fire protection contractor and/or building owner. The city will assume no
liability in this regard.
      (5)   No meters for the fire suppression system shall be installed nor
shall any existing system be altered until the plans and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the Water Distribution Superintendent and a
signed copy returned to the submitter.
   (C)   Installation standards.
      (1)   Approved fire suppression systems shall be installed in accordance
with current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, building
codes, federal, state and local laws or ordinances and/or recommended
practices, whichever are applicable.
      (2)   The location of all Fire Department connections shall be approved
by the Fire Chief.
      (3)   The city-approved inline mag meter shall be same size as the inflow
piping of the fire sprinkler pipe with shutoff valves on both sides of the
meter to insure the ability to change or maintain the meter. The meter shall be
installed before any connections to the fire main. All bypass connections in
the piping must also have and maintain an inline valve to remain in the off
position except in situations that the bypass is necessary for maintenance.
   (D)   Inspections and fees. The Water Distribution Superintendent or his or
her representative must have access for inspection of the meter installation at
all times. Water taps up to two inches will be installed and completed by the
city. The tap fee charge will be $1,800 and the meter cost will be $350. Any
taps over two inches will be installed completed by a city authorized
contractor. The meter cost will be at market price. For taps installed by
contractor, the city will inspect and charge a $50 inspection fee.
      (1)   Any existing lot with an abandoned service line will be required to
replace the existing line and is subject to the tap fees above.
      (2)   All new meter installations will be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 54 relating to deposits required by the city.
   (E)   Billing/or water usage. The meter shall be read on a monthly basis
with the normal reading cycle to determine any usage on the meter for billing
purposes. If there is water usage as determined by the meter, the building
owner shall be charged for the water used at then-current water rates as set
forth in the city’s ordinances and amended from time to time. Provided,
however, that the billing for the usage as set forth in this section shall not
be adjusted for alleged or actual leaks in accordance with other pertinent
provisions in the city’s code of ordinances.
(Ord. 610.7-06-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 50.56 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. The city requires that all existing structures (commercial
and/or industrial buildings) that presently have a fire sprinkler system,
without an approved meter, shall install a city-approved inline meter to
measure flow and use of water conveyed through said meter into the sprinkler
system in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Installation standards.
      (1)   The city-approved inline meter shall be the same size as the inflow
piping of the fire sprinkler pipe with shut-off valves on both sides of the
meter to ensure the ability to change or maintain the meter. The meter shall be
installed before any connections to the fire main. All bypass connections in
the piping must also have and maintain an inline valve to remain in the off
position except in situations that the bypass is necessary for maintenance. The
meter shall be purchased through the city at the city’s cost plus 15%, or be
exactly the same as those used/purchased by the city to ensure compatibility
for billing purposes.
      (2)   If there is no room in the current vault or building where the fire
sprinkler system is constructed for retrofitting of the meter installation, the
city-approved inline meter shall be installed in a separate vault before any
connections to the fire main. The meter installation must have an inline valve
on both sides of the meter to ensure the ability to change or maintain the
meter.
   (C)   Inspections and fees. The Water Distribution Superintendent or his or
her representative must have access for inspection of the installation of the
meter at all times.
   (D)   Billing/or water usage and implementation. The meter shall be read on
a monthly basis with the normal reading cycle to determine any usage on the
meter for billing purposes. If there is water usage as determined by the meter,
the building owner shall be charged for the water used at then-current water
rates as set forth in the city’s ordinances and amended from time to time.
Provided, however, that the billing for the usage as set forth in this section
shall not be adjusted for alleged or actual leaks in accordance with other
pertinent provisions in the city’s code of ordinances.
(Ord. 610.7-06-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to conform to any of the provisions of
§
50.02 shall, upon conviction for a first offense, be fined in any sum not less
than $50, nor more than more than the sum of $100. For a second offense, any
person violating or failing to conform to any of the provisions of §
50.02 shall have the water service connection to the premises where the water
was being used in violation of §
50.02 disconnected for a length of time as prescribed by a court of competent
jurisdiction. In addition, after a second conviction, a reconnect fee of $50
shall be collected.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation responsible for damage or destruction
of any fire hydrant (violation of §
50.15) shall be responsible for the cost of replacement or repair and a fine of
$100, or up to 60 days imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation found to violate §
50.16 shall be subject to a fine of $100 or up to 60 days imprisonment for the
act of vandalizing a water system in accordance with KRS 96.340.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation that opens a fire hydrant without a
permit (violating §
50.18) will be subject to prosecution and a fine of $100 or up to 60 days
imprisonment.
   (F)   Any building owner who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
50.55 and
50.56 within the time limits set forth hereinabove shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $50, nor more than $250 per day that the violation exists
beyond the time limits set forth above and/or any extensions granted by the
city. The Code Enforcement Officer or Water Distribution Superintendent is/are
hereby given the authority to issue citations in accordance with the provisions
of §§
50.55 and
50.56.
(Ord. 630.0-1999, passed 9-27-1996; Ord. 610.90-2001, passed 10-22-2001; Ord.
610.7- 06-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2024-016, passed 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE; COLLECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Purpose and policy
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Administration and enforcement
   
51.05   Exemptions
   
51.06   Exclusive control of services
   
51.07   Abatement, generally
Abatement of Nuisances Created by Solid Waste Accumulation
   
51.20   Prohibited solid waste activities
   
51.21   Abatement of nuisances
   
51.22   Unauthorized dumping prohibited
Solid Waste Regulations
   
51.35   Mayor’s authority
   
51.36   Regulation procedure
   
51.37   Appeals from decision of Administrator
Rates and Charges for Collection and Disposal
   
51.50   Scope; services
   
51.51   Responsibility for payment
   
51.52   Remedy for non-payment of charges
   
51.53   Fees to be charged and adjustment thereof
   
51.54   Use of funds collected
   
51.55   Rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Solid Waste Disposal Ordinance”, and may
be so cited and shall be cited herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city and to provide a coordinated program on accumulation, collection and
disposal of wastes and solid waste within the city, it is declared to be the
public policy of the city to regulate the accumulation and disposal of wastes
and solid waste and the creation and operation of a disposal site in order to:
   (A)   Provide for the safe and sanitary accumulation, storage, and disposal
of solid waste;
   (B)   To prohibit and to provide for the abatement of accumulated wastes or
solid waste on private property which create a public nuisance, a hazard to
health, or a condition of unsightliness; and
   (C)   To provide for a coordinated solid waste disposal program within the
corporate areas of the city.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the
purpose of this chapter, the word SHALL is mandatory not directory, and the
term THIS CHAPTER shall be deemed to include all amendments hereafter made to
this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky, acting by and through its City
Commission, unless the context indicates otherwise.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
partnership, association, federal agency or state agency.
   RESIDENCE. Any structure or shelter or any part thereof used or constructed
for use as a residence.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse or discarded materials generated by
commercial, residential or industrial activities. For the purposes of this
chapter, SOLID WASTE shall also include household appliances, furniture and
auto tires, unless changed hereafter by amendment to this chapter or by
regulation.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the solid waste Administrator who shall be under the direct
supervision of the Mayor of the city. The Administrator shall have such
specific powers and duties as are delegated to him or her in this chapter and
by rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to: special wastes as defined in KRS 224.868;
solid waste from agricultural or mining operations; federal, state or county
agencies that collect, store, transport or dispose of wastes; provided,
however, that this exemption shall apply only insofar as allowing said agencies
to collect solid waste but shall not exempt said agencies from being
responsible for payment for disposal of solid waste at a disposal site operated
by the city or its designated agent, under this chapter.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.06 EXCLUSIVE CONTROL OF SERVICES.
   It shall be the exclusive domain of the city to control the collection and
disposal of solid waste within the city, unless excepted hereunder.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.07 ABATEMENT, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The accumulation, storage, collection or disposal of solid waste by
any person in violation of this chapter or regulations promulgated thereunder
is a nuisance and the city may, in addition to other remedies provided by law,
institute injunction, abatement or other appropriate legal proceedings to
temporarily or permanently enjoin or abate such storage, accumulation,
collection or disposal.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are in addition to and not in lieu of
any criminal prosecution or penalties as provided by this chapter or by state
law.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES CREATED BY SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION
§ 51.20 PROHIBITED SOLID WASTE ACTIVITIES.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall store, collect, dispose,
maintain or display on any property any solid waste materials. This storage,
collection, disposal, maintenance or display in violation of this section shall
be punishable by the provisions set out herein and also shall be considered as
a public nuisance which may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Administrator may on his or her own initiative or upon the written
request of any person make an investigation to determine whether or not the
storage, collection, maintenance or display of waste or solid wastes is in
violation of §
51.50.
   (B)   After investigation, if the Administrator finds that there is
reasonable cause to believe that a public nuisance exists, he or she shall
forward a written notice of such finding to the Mayor, and shall mail a copy of
said finding to the alleged violator.
   (C)   If within 72 hours after the receipt of the written notice by the
alleged violator, the situation complained of by the Administrator has not been
remedied, the Administrator, with the approval of the Mayor may remove from the
subject premises the wastes or solid waste found to be the cause of the danger.
Such removal shall be at the costs of the person served, and the Administrator,
the Mayor, the city, or an agent thereof, shall not be liable for any trespass
or conversion as to any real or personal property.
   (D)   The provisions of this section are in addition to and not in lieu of
the penalty or proceedings prescribed in §§
51.07 and
51.99.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.22 UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose of solid waste at any other place than a
disposal site approved by the proper state agency and designated by the city.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986) Penalty, see §
51.99
SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
§ 51.35 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor of the city shall have the authority to promulgate any and all
reasonable regulations necessary for the implementation, administration or
operation of this chapter. Said regulations shall be subject to change and
shall become part of any contract or subcontract issued under this chapter by
being added as an addendum thereto.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.36 REGULATION PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the Mayor desires to promulgate a regulation hereunder, said
regulation shall be published in the newspaper pursuant to the provisions of
the state statutes at least once per week for two consecutive weeks. At the end
of said two-week period, said proposed regulations shall be on file with the
City Clerk for inspection by the public for a period of two weeks. At the end
of the latter two-week period of inspection, a public hearing will be scheduled
by the Mayor and held to solicit public continent in regard to the proposed
regulations. Unless the City Commission votes to the contrary, said regulations
shall become binding and effective one week subsequent to the date of the
above-referenced public hearing.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.37 APPEALS FROM DECISION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city, upon its own motion or upon the written request of an interested
person or affected public agency, may review decisions of the Administrator
made pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
RATES AND CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 51.50 SCOPE; SERVICES.
   Every residence, commercial enterprise or other waste producing entity
except as set out in §
51.05, shall subscribe to the services governed by this chapter.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.51 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   The owner of the premises served shall be primarily responsible for
payment of the charges noted hereinafter with the occupant or user of the
premises being secondarily liable.
   (B)   The occupant/user may be billed directly if the owner agrees in
writing to be responsible for the charge event, the occupant/user does not pay
for the service.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.52 REMEDY FOR NON-PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   Any charges in arrears hereunder shall be sufficient to allow the
Administrator to place a lien on the property involved. Additionally, and as an
option to the lien noted herein, the Administrator shall have the authority to
file suit in the name of the city in a court of appropriate jurisdiction to sue
for the arrearages owed as well as for the court costs involved therein.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.53 FEES TO BE CHARGED AND ADJUSTMENT THEREOF.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the city to provide for the solid waste
collection disposal services under this chapter on a reasonable cost basis.
   (B)   In furtherance of that policy, rates hereunder shall be adjusted semi-
annually.
   (C)   On or before January and July of each year, the Administrator shall
set a rate for the following year which can reasonably be expected for
fulfilling the city’s commitments.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.54 USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   All funds collected under this chapter for services rendered shall be paid
to the City Sanitation Fund.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 51.55 RATES.
   (A)   The following shall constitute the rates for solid waste pickup within
the city:
      (1)   Residential rates/city: $13.11 per month;
      (2)   Residential rates/county: $15.72 per month;
      (3)   Over 65/physically disabled/city: $10.92 per month;
      (4)   Over 65/physically disabled/county: $13.11 per month;
      (5)   Hand pickup/commercial, one pickup per week: $46.92 per month;
      (6)   Hand pickup/commercial, two pickups per week: $71.68 per month;
      (7)   Hand pickup/commercial, three pickups per week: $87.62 per month;
      (8)   Hand pickup/commercial, four pickups per week: $99.54 per month;
      (9)   Hand pickup/commercial, five pickups per week: $109.13 per month;
      (10)   Commercial rate/container, first pickup per week: $6.68 per yard;
      (11)   Commercial rate/container, second pickup per week: $3.35 per yard;
      (12)   Commercial rate/container, third pickup per week: $2.23 per yard;
      (13)   Commercial rate/container, fourth pickup per week: $1.69 per yard;
      (14)   Commercial rate/container, fifth pickup per week: $1.34 per yard;
      (15)   Industrial rate: $245.81 + 59.75 per ton; and
      (16)   Business part-time/senior citizen rate, first pickup per week:
$23.91 per month.
   (B)   Commercial customers utilizing dumpsters with weekly pickups shall be
billed for four weeks per month, for a total of 48 weeks per year.
   (C)   The foregoing rates will take effect November 1, 1994.
   (D)   For as long as the franchise agreement, dated September 27, 1988
remains in effect as determined by the City Commission, the foregoing rates
shall be adjusted annually on the anniversary of the effective date of the
rates set forth herein.
      (1)   The City Manager shall determine the annual increase in the
consumer price index by use of an outside independent source and adjust the
rates accordingly.
      (2)   At least two weeks prior to the effective date of the new rates,
the City Manager shall advise the Commission of the new rates, and the basis of
the calculations for arriving at said rates.
(Ord. 830.13-11-94, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable upon
conviction by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $250. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall be, at the discretion of the appropriate
court, considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 830.3-1-86, passed 1-27-1986)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION
Section
   
52.01   Objectives of chapter
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Elimination of cross-connections
   
52.04   Installation, testing and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies
   
52.05   Industrial and commercial facilities and methods of correction
   
52.06   Residential facilities and methods of correction
   
52.07   Lawn irrigation systems
   
52.08   Fire sprinkler systems
   
52.09   Imminent hazards
   
52.10   Right of entry
   
52.11   Responsibility of customer
   
52.12   Unapproved source of supply
   
52.13   Violations; notice; correction
   
52.14   Right of appeal
   
52.15   Compliance
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 OBJECTIVES OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The objective of the backflow prevention chapter for the city is to
protect the potable water supply of the city. This will be accomplished by
requiring the use of appropriate backflow protection methods. The possibility
of contamination will be isolated by confining within the customer’s private
water system those contaminants or pollutants which could, under adverse
conditions, backflow through uncontrolled cross-connections into the public
water system.
   (B)   The following are state regulations incorporated herein by reference:
      (1)   815 KAR 20:120 Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code
1995-1996, Water Supply and Distribution Section 2(4):
         (4)   “Cross-connections shall be prohibited except as approved by the
authority having jurisdiction, and suitable protective devices shall be
installed.”
         (5)   “Cross-connections between a private water supply and a public
water supply shall not be made.”
         (7)   (h)   “Inspection of Devices: Periodic inspections shall be made
of all backflow and back-siphonage preventers to determine if they are in
proper working condition. Reduced pressure principle back pressure backflow
prevention devices shall be tested on at least an annual basis. Records shall
be kept on all inspections.
      (2)   401 KAR 8:020, Section 2, Paragraph (2):
         “Cross-connections prohibited. All cross-connections are prohibited.
The use of automatic devices, such as reduced pressure zone backflow preventers
and vacuum breakers, may be approved by the cabinet in lieu of proper air gap
separation. A combination of air gap separation and automatic devices shall be
required if determined by the cabinet to be necessary due to the degree of
hazard to public health. Every public water system shall determine if or where
cross-connections exist and shall immediately eliminate them.”
      (3)   401 KAR 8:101 Section 1(29)
         “Cross-connection” means a physical connection or arrangement between
two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other being either water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gas or
chemicals, whereby there may be flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 615.0-2003, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing, fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An APPROVED AIR-GAP SEPARATION shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe; however, in no event shall the air-gap separation
be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. In reference to backflow prevention assemblies or methods, all
devices must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (FCCCHR) and the Director/Utility.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of normal flow of water, which could be contaminated
with foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution pipelines of a
potable water supply. BACKFLOW can occur under two conditions: back-pressure
and back- siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly or method used to prevent
backflow from occurring in the potable water supply.
   BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW. Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler or
other means that could create pressure within the system greater than the
supply pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW. A reversal of the normal direction flow in the
pipeline due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line
with the backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul and prepare reports on backflow prevention assemblies as
evidenced by certification of successful completion of a training program
approved by the city/utility.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation using or receiving water
from the city water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Prevention of possible contamination from a private water
system by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of water so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between the city’s water supply
system and any other source. This includes piping systems, sewer fixtures,
containers or devices whereby water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
may flow into or enter the city’s water supply system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTOR. An employee of the city designated by the
Director/Utility to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Derived from an evaluation of the health, system, plumbing
or pollution hazards.
   DIRECTOR. The Superintendent of the City Water Distribution Department.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently- acting approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the assembly, and suitable connections for
testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized approved double check valve device. The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   HIGH HAZARD. A cross-connection that has an actual or potential threat of
contamination to the public water system or to a private water system to such a
degree or intensity that there could be a danger to health.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. A cross-connection that has an actual threat of
contamination that presents a danger to the public health with consequences of
serious illness or death.
   LOW HAZARD. A cross-connection, which has a low probability of becoming a
moderate, high or imminent hazard (as those terms are defined), that could
cause an impairment in the quality of potable water to a degree that does not
create a hazard to the public health, but does adversely and unreasonably
affect the aesthetic qualities of such potable water for domestic use.
   MODERATE HAZARD. A cross-connection that presents an actual or potential
threat of foreseeable and significant potential for pollution, nuisance
aesthetically objectionable or other undesirable alterations of the drinking
water supply.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, i.e. where the Director/Utility loses sole jurisdiction
over the water; the point where water leaves the public water system and enters
a private water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the state and/or the city.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A system of pipes or other associated facilities that
is not part of the city’s public water system and is used to move or receive
water, regardless of the source of water in such system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing within its
structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check valves,
together with an automatically operating pressure differential relief valve
located between the check valves. The first check valve reduces the supply
pressure a predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at cessation of
normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply
pressures. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharge to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the checks less than the supply pressure. The assembly must include
properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves at each end of
the assembly.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE- DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevent ion assembly with a bypass
water meter and meter-sized approved reduced pressure principle devices. The
meter shall register accurately for very low flow rates and shall register all
flow rates.
   UTILITY. The City of Franklin’s Water and/or Water Distribution Departments.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public potable water supply which has been
investigated and approved by the appropriate agency of the state. The system
must be operating under a valid health permit.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 615.0-2003, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 52.03 ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   No private water system may be connected in any manner to the public water
system unless the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws have
been satisfied. Only an approved device can be installed to meet the
requirements of this chapter. The installation of any backflow prevention
assembly which is not approved must be replaced with an approved backflow
prevention assembly. The city has concluded that “containment” is the best and
safest method of cross-connection control. The safest and most appropriate
device is the reduced pressure principle assembly.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.04 INSTALLATION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturers’ instructions and those approved by the city. Only
backflow preventers approved by the city shall be installed.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter must be
installed and maintained on the customer’s premises as part of the customer’s
water system.
   (C)   Ownership, testing and maintenance of the backflow prevention assembly
will be the responsibility of the customer. Each assembly required in this
chapter must be functioning properly at all times.
   (D)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be conducted by a
certified tester at the customer’s expense. Tests shall be conducted upon
installation and annually thereafter with a record of all testing and repairs
retained by the customer. A copy of the certified record for each test or
repair must be sent to the city by such customer within 30 days after the
completion of each test or repair. Such records must be maintained on forms
provided by the city.
   (E)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this chapter must be
accessible to the city.
   (F)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer shall
provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly. The Director will not accept an unprotected bypass around a backflow
preventer when the assembly is in need of testing, repair or replacement.
   (G)   Any time that repairs to backflow assemblies are deemed necessary,
whether through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner or by the
city, these repairs must be completed within a time specified in accordance
with the degree of hazard. Repairs on a private water system considered to be
an imminent hazard shall be completed within 24 hours, a high hazard shall be
completed within ten days, and all other repairs within 20 days. For any other
private water system, failure to comply can result in termination of a
customer’s water service.
   (H)   Upon determination that a backflow prevention assembly is required to
be installed on a customer’s private water system, the customer must install an
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   (I)   The Director may require the installation of the required backflow
prevention assembly immediately or within a shorter time period than specified
above if he or she determines that any condition poses an unreasonable threat
of contamination to the public water supply system. All devices required for
new construction shall be installed prior to occupancy.
   (J)   All new construction plans and specifications shall be made available
to the Director for approval and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (K)   The Director shall be notified by the customer when the nature of the
use of property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the
property.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.05 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All industrial and commercial facilities that are classified by the
Director, in Director’s discretion, as a high and/or imminent hazard most shall
install and/or have an approved reduced pressure principle assembly as a
minimum containment device, unless another device is approved by the Director.
   (B)   All industrial and commercial facilities that are classified by the
Director, in Director’s discretion, as a moderate hazard shall install and/or
have a double check valve assembly as a minimum containment device, unless
another devise is approved by the Director.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 615.0-2003, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 52.06 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All new residential buildings shall be required to install a dual
check valve as a minimum containment device. This device will be installed with
the meter setter when the city installs the water tap. All residential
buildings with backflow devices must have a thermal expansion tank installed to
prevent the water heater from exploding.
   (B)   Existing residential buildings are exempt from this chapter unless or
until a new or replacement water meter is installed and/or a new or replacement
water heater is installed. Upon the occurrence of either of these events, the
owner of the residence, building and/or structure shall install a backflow
preventer device and thermal expansion tank prior to final approval by the
Plumbing Inspector and Director/Utility.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 615.0-2003, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 52.07 LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All new and existing lawn irrigation systems that do not use chemical
additives must have a pressure vacuum breaker assembly as a minimum containment
device.
   (B)   All new and existing lawn irrigation systems that use chemical
additives shall have a reduced pressure principle detector assembly as a
minimum containment device.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 615.0-2003, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 52.08 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All fire sprinkler systems without booster facilities or chemical
additives must have a double check-detector check valve assembly as a minimum
containment device.
   (B)   All fire sprinkler systems with a booster facility or chemical
additives must have a reduced pressure principle detector assembly as a minimum
containment device.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.09 IMMINENT HAZARDS.
   (A)   If the Director determines that a customer’s private water system
constitutes an imminent hazard, such customer shall install a backflow
prevention assembly as may be specified by the Director within 24 hours after
notice of the Director’s determination. If the customer fails to take
corrective measures in a timely manner or refuses to install the specified
assembly, water service to the customers private water system may be
terminated.
   (B)   If the Director is unable to give notice to such customer or his or
her representative within 24 hours after the determination that an imminent
hazard exists despite reasonable efforts to provide such notice, the Director
may terminate water service to the private water system until the specified
corrected measures are taken.
   (C)   Upon correction of the existing problem and with the Director’s
approval, water service will be continued to the customer.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter any building, structure or premises during normal working hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter. Duties may include,
but are not limited to, sampling and testing water, or inspections and
observations of all piping systems connected to the public water supply. Prior
notice will be given unless an imminent hazard has been reported. Refusal to
allow entry for these purposes may result in termination of the water service.
   (B)   At the request of the Director, the customer shall furnish any
pertinent information to the Director or his designee regarding the piping
system and chemical storage on such property where cross-connections are deemed
possible.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the elimination of or protection
against all cross-connections on his or her premises.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain any backflow prevention assembly within
his or her premise in good operating condition. The customer shall correct any
malfunction of the backflow device which is revealed by periodic testing.
   (C)   The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
annual testing, for re-testing in the case that the assembly fails to operate
correctly, and for repairs.
   (D)   A customer must immediately notify the city if the customer has reason
to believe that backflow has occurred from the customer’s private water system
to the public water system.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.12 UNAPPROVED SOURCE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the state and/or city to the public water supply system.
   (B)   Where a connection to a city water line is made, and the property
owner continues to have a well or other source of water, it shall be unlawful
for the plumbing servicing any building upon such property to be so connected
that any water outlet within the building may be served with water from any
source other than the city connection, and it shall also be unlawful to have
plumbing cross-connected or so installed that water from the city water system
or the private water system may in any way become intermingled.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; CORRECTION.
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Such notice shall set forth the violation and the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected within
the time specified in the notice of violation; however, in no event shall a
notice of violation specify a time of correction exceeding 30 days from receipt
of the violation notice. If the Director determines that the violation is
occurring on a customer’s private water system and that such violation has
created or contributed to the existence of an imminent hazard, the customer may
be required to correct the violation immediately.
   (C)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails to
correct a violation or to pay any civil penalty or expense assessed under this
section. Termination of water service will be without prejudice to the city’s
ability to assert any other remedy available to the city against the customer
or any other person responsible for the violation.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice of violation for a violation of any of the
terms or conditions of this chapter, the owner(s) may request a hearing to
review the notice of violation with the Director. The request for a hearing
shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail return receipt requested or
hand-delivered to the Director and shall state with specificity the reason(s)
and/or basis for the appeal. Within ten days of receipt of the request for a
hearing, the Director shall notify owner(s) of the date of said hearing. A
written decision shall be mailed by Director to owner(s) within ten days of the
date of the hearing.
   (B)   If the owner(s) desire, owner(s) may appeal the decision of the
Director to the City Manager. The notice of appeal shall be in writing and
mailed certified mail return receipt requested or hand-delivered to the City
Manager and shall state with specificity the reason(s) and/or basis for the
appeal. The notice of appeal must be received by the City Manager within ten
days of the date of the Director’s decision. The City Manager shall notify
owner(s) of the date of said hearing as soon as practicable upon receipt of the
notice of appeal. A written decision from the City Manager shall be mailed to
owner(s) within ten days after said hearing.
   (C)   Owner(s) shall have further right of appeal to the City Commission.
The notice of appeal to the City Commission shall be in writing and shall state
with specificity the reason(s) and/or basis for the appeal. The notice of
appeal must be received by the City Clerk within ten days of the date of the
City Manager’s decision. The City Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the City
Commission and shall notify owner(s) of the date of said hearing within ten
days of the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The City Commission shall
issue a written decision within ten days of the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.15 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No residence, building or structure shall hereinafter be located,
extended, constructed or structurally altered in a manner which requires a new,
altered or replacement private connection to the public water system, unless
the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws or regulations have
been satisfied.
   (B)   The owner(s) of any and all existing facilities or structures, whether
industrial, commercial or otherwise, which contain private connections to the
public water system and which are subject to the requirements of this chapter
shall be mailed a copy of this chapter and a notice of compliance. Owner(s)
shall have 180 days from the date of the receipt of the notice of compliance to
have any and all private connections to the public water system owned or
controlled by owner(s) in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable laws or regulations. Additional time for compliance may be
granted to owners(s) upon written request by owner(s) to Director; however,
failure by owner(s) to comply with all of the terms and conditions of this
chapter and other applicable laws and regulations by the date prescribed in the
notice of compliance or any additional time for compliance granted by and
through this section shall subject owners(s) to any and all enforcement and/or
penalty provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penally as set forth herein below. Each subsequent day that
a violation listed in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) below continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
is deemed by the Director as an imminent hazard: fine of $1,000 per day.
      (2)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
is deemed by the Director as a high hazard: fine of $750 per day.
      (3)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
is deemed by the Director as a moderate hazard: fine of $500 per day.
      (4)   Unprotected cross-connection for which no other civil penalty is
prescribed-fine of $250 per day. Each violation listed in divisions (A)(4)(a)
through (A)(4)(e) shall be considered a one time violation subject to the
following schedule.
         (a)   Falsifying records which are required to be submitted by this
chapter - tester may be removed from the approved certified tester list and/or
fined up to $500.
         (b)   Submitting incomplete records or failing to submit records which
are required by this chapter - tester may be removed from the approved
certified tester list and/or fined up to $250.
         (c)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as required: $100
fine.
         (d)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as required:
$100 fine.
         (e)   Any other violation of the provisions of this chapter: $100
fine.
   (B)   The Director may increase any civil penalty assessed under this
section by $100 or 50% of the maximum civil penalty associated with the
violation, whichever is greater, for a second violation of the same provision
within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a third
violation of the same provision within a two-year period. Any person violating
any provision of this chapter shall pay to the city all expenses incurred by
the city in repairing any damage to the public water system caused in whole or
in part by such violation and any expense incurred by the city in investigating
and prosecuting such violation including, but not limited to a reasonable fee
for the city’s attorney. All such expenses are deemed to be a part of the civil
penalty assessed with the violation.
(Ord. 615.0-2001, passed 11-19-2001)
CHAPTER 53: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 54: RATES AND CHARGES FOR WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Water and sewer service rates
   
54.04   When bills payable; interest; disconnection for delinquent payment
   
54.05   Application for service and billing; who to pay
   
54.06   Meter deposits
   
54.07   [Reserved]
   
54.08   Exceptions in application of sanitary sewer charges
   
54.09   Testing of meters and allocation of cost
   
54.10   Adjustment of water and sewer bills
   
54.11   Adjustment of sewer bills for irrigation of lawns and annual fill-up of
swimming pools
   
54.12   Use of meter data log information
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to repeal and re-enact the ordinance
identified in the preamble hereto as it is related in any way to charges for
water service and sewer service; but no portion thereof nor any portion of any
previously adopted, reaffirmed, repealed or re-enacted ordinances related to
regulations for mandatory sewer connections are repealed, and any ordinance on
said subject may be supplemented or amended by a later ordinance.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, apartment buildings, manufacturing facilities and any other user
other than a single family user or dwelling.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any political subdivision of this state, any agency of the
state government or of the United States, and any political subdivision of
another state.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for single family domestic dwelling
purposes only.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 610.7-01-2014, passed 1-13-2014; Ord.
2015-015, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 54.03 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established monthly rates or
charges for services rendered by said combined and consolidated system,
the same to be computed and billed upon the basis of the first water meter
reading of each customer and user after the effective date of this section, and
thereafter as follows:
Water Rates
Rates Effective 2- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
      1-2015       2016           2017           2018           2019
Water Rates
Rates                                      Effective Effective Effective Effective Effective
                                           2-1-2015  1-1-2016  1-1-2017  1-1-2018  1-1-2019
City base rate (residential)
   First 2,000 gallons: $12.32 (minimum $12.94    $13.59    $14.27    $14.99    $15.74
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $6.15/1,000 gallo6.47      6.80      7.14      7.50      7.88
City commercial rate
   First 2,000 gallons: $18.45 (minimum 19.39     20.36     21.38     22.45     23.58
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $6.16/1,000 gallo6.47      6.80      7.14      7.50      7.88
County residential
   First 2,000 gallons: $18.46 (minimum 19.39     20.36     21.38     22.45     23.58
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $9.23/1,000 gallo9.70      10.19     10.70     11.24     11.81
County commercial
   First 2,000 gallons: $24.07 (minimum 25.28     26.55     27.88     29.28     30.75
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $9.23/1,000 gallo9.70      10.19     10.70     11.24     11.81
Sewer Rates
Rates Effective 2- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
      1-2015       2016           2017           2018           2019
Sewer Rates
Rates                                      Effective Effective Effective Effective Effective
                                           2-1-2015  1-1-2016  1-1-2017  1-1-2018  1-1-2019
City base rate (residential)
   First 2,000 gallons: $12.27 (minimum $12.89    $13.54    $14.22    $14.94    $15.69
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $3.60/1,000 gallo3.78      3.97      4.17      4.38      4.60
City commercial rate
   First 2,000 gallons: $13.74 (minimum 14.43     15.16     15.92     16.72     17.56
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $4.50/1,000 gallo4.73      4.97      5.22      5.49      5.77
County residential
   First 2,000 gallons: $13.64 (minimum 14.33     15.05     15.81     16.61     17.45
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $4.36/1,000 gallo4.58      4.81      5.06      5.32      5.59
County commercial
   First 2,000 gallons: $20.25 (minimum 21.27     22.34     23.46     24.64     25.88
bill)
   Over 2,000 gallons: $6.64/1,000 gallo6.98      7.33      7.70      8.09      8.50
 
   (B)   All prior ordinances adopted with regard to any rates including, but
not limited to, surcharge rates and tap fees, to the extent not inconsistent
herewith, remain in full force and effect. If any rate established by this
section is for any reason held invalid or found to be in violation of any
binding contractual agreement, by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the
rate herein established shall be the greatest rate allowable by law.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 610.7-6- 2009, passed 6-22-2009; Ord.
2015-003, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 54.04 WHEN BILLS PAYABLE; INTEREST; DISCONNECTION FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   The rates and charges aforesaid shall be billed monthly and all bills
for such services shall be payable within 15 days after rendition.
   (B)   If not paid within such period of 15 days, a penalty equal to 10% of
the face amount of the bill shall become due and payable; provided, however,
that if the fifteenth day should fall upon a Saturday, Sunday or a legal
holiday then the face amount of the bill may be paid on the next secular day
which is not a holiday, provided further that if the fifteenth day should fall
on the second or third day of the month, then the face amount of the bill may
be paid on the fourth day of the month, or the next secular day of the month,
which is not a holiday.
   (C)   If any such bill, together with penalty charges, if any, shall remain
unpaid for a period of 25 days after rendition, the water service connection to
the premises shall be disconnected. A charge in the sum of $50 for a service
fee between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday on
regular business days, and $90 between the hours of 4:01 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
Monday through Friday, is hereby fixed to cover the expense of this service.
   (D)   In the event that representatives of the city arrive at the premises
for purposes of disconnection and receive payment at this point, the
disconnect/reconnect charge shall still be levied prior to such reconnection,
the customer shall be required to pay the delinquent bill, penalty and the
disconnect/reconnect charge for disconnection and reconnection. Whether or not
any premises are disconnected because of delinquency, the City Attorney is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect the amount of any bills
remaining delinquent for 30 days (including the penalty, disconnection/
reconnect charge, reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs) by suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction upon being so directed by the City Manager or
City Commission.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 610.7-01-2014, passed 1-13-2014; Ord.
2015-015, passed 9-28-2015; Ord. 2022-003, passed 2-14-2022; Ord. 2023-015,
passed 4-10-2023; Ord. 2024-017, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 54.05 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND BILLING; WHO TO PAY.
   (A)   Any person desiring his or her property to be connected to the system
shall make application for service in person at the municipal center, and shall
tender the required security deposit.
   (B)   At the time of application, if the property sought to be served by the
city’s water and/or sewer system is outside the corporate limits of the city,
the property owner shall be required to execute a consent to annexation, and to
provide a copy of the deed to the property to be served.
   (C)   The rates and charges aforesaid shall be billed to the owners of the
premises, except that upon application by the tenant of any premises, who is
not the owner thereof, filed with the Board or body of said city in charge of
the control and operation of said system, accompanied by the required security
deposit a cash deposit or other appropriate security or indemnity in an amount
or a kind approved by such Board or body, such bills may be rendered to such
tenant.
   (D)   No free water service shall be granted or permitted to any water user,
including the city itself, except that in accordance with long standing policy,
custom and practice the city shall not be required to pay hydrant rentals for
fire protection purposes, and also may use water to flush hydrants and mains
according to standard engineering practices.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 610.6A-6-99, passed 6-28-1999; Ord.
2017-011, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 54.06 METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water and sewer deposits. Deposits heretofore made by customers and
which are presently held by the city as partial security for the payment of
water bills according to previous ordinances shall continue to be held by the
city subject to the provisions of this chapter. Each new customer and/or each
customer that is required to reconnect to service due to late or non-payment of
a water bill shall be required to place a monetary deposit with the city in
accordance with this section. The deposit shall be the sum of $150 at the time
of installation or re-connection of any water meter for a single-family
residence or $150 per meter for installation or re-connection for a duplex or
apartment house. With regard to installation or re-connection of a meter for a
meter line of one inch or more in diameter, the customer shall pay the actual
costs of the meter and meter installation. With regard to the deposit to be
placed with the city upon installation or reinstallation of a meter for a meter
line of one inch or more in diameter, the deposit shall be the estimated cost
of the meter and installation as if it was being newly installed, with said
deposit amount to be determined in the sole discretion of the city. Any and all
of said deposits are to be held for assurance of the payment of the bills for
water and sewer services supplied by said system, and the deposits held shall
be subject to be applied to any past due bills in the event of delinquency, and
any amount so applied to delinquent bills shall be restored by the depositor
within ten days after notice by the city to do so. If any deposit is not
restored in accordance with the requirements of this section, the customer
shall be disconnected from water service to the premises, upon penalty of
disconnection of water service to the premises. Upon proper notice to terminate
service to a business or residence by a customer, and payment of the final bill
for said customer, the deposit shall be refunded. Such refund shall be
forwarded the customer as soon as practicable after receipt by the city of
payment of the final bill in accordance with the city’s normal payment cycle.
   (B)   Sewer deposits.
      (1)   All persons or entities who receive city sewer service that do not
purchase their water from the city are hereby required to provide information,
complete the forms required by the city, and post deposits as set forth herein
below.
      (2)   This requirement applies to customers currently receiving sewer
service from the city as well as those who apply for service in the future.
      (3)   Deposits will not bear interest, except as required by law.
      (4)   Deposits will only be refunded upon the termination of sewer
service by the customer and the full payment of all sewer charges due by the
customer.
 
Single-family dwelling or individual apartment Deposit $100
Multi-family dwelling or apartments            Deposit $250
Business                                       Deposit $600
Industrial                                     $1,500
 
      (5)   In addition to the foregoing, in the event that sewer service is
terminated to any customer as a result of non-payment, sewer service will only
be reconnected upon the payment of a reconnect charge in the amount of $100, or
the actual cost, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Additional requirements. In the event that a customer desires to
establish a water or sewer connection in a residence or for property which he
or she does not own and when the service is not placed in the name of the
landlord/owner of the property, the customer shall provide a copy of the lease
to the city prior to the city providing service. In addition, the city’s
representatives shall only establish service in the name(s) of the person(s)
that signed the lease as the tenant/lessee. If the customer(s) has/have prior
amounts owed, service shall not be established unless or until the prior
indebtedness has been paid in full.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 610.6-8A-2006, passed 8-28-2006; Ord.
610.6-9-2013, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-26-2015; Ord. 2024-017,
passed 6-10-2024)
§ 54.07 [RESERVED].
§ 54.08 EXCEPTIONS IN APPLICATION OF SANITARY SEWER CHARGES.
   The city recognizes certain exceptional situations wherein adjustments in
the manner of applying sanitary sewer service charges should be permitted, and
provision is made for the same, as follows. Whenever it is determined by the
city to be necessary to classify any commercial institutions or industries, or
other entities, by reason of the unusual purpose for which water is used, or
the character of the commercial and industrial wastes which are discharged
therefrom, or whenever the established schedule of sanitary sewer service and/
or water rates and charges for any reason is not applicable, then special
sanitary sewer service rates, water rates, rentals or other charges may be
established by the Board of Commissioners, and any person, firm or corporation
being dissatisfied with the established schedule of sanitary sewer service
rates, water rates, rentals or other charges by reason of peculiar or unusual
use or occupancy of any premises, and consequently alleging peculiar or unusual
uses of water, may file application with the city for special classification
rates, rental and charges. The Board of Commissioners may take such action
thereon as it sees fit.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996; Ord. 2017-011, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 54.09 TESTING OF METERS AND ALLOCATION OF COST.
   Any customer who has reason to suspect that their water meter is defective
or malfunctioning, may request that the meter be pulled, replaced and tested.
Should the test reveal that the meter is functioning properly, the customer
shall be required to reimburse the city for the cost of changing out the meter
and the cost of testing. Such costs may be added to the customers next monthly
water and sewer bill. If the test reveals that the meter is defective or
malfunctioning, then the city shall be responsible for the cost associated with
the changeout, and shall adjust the customer’s bill in accordance with current
city policy.
(Ord. 610.7-2-96, passed 2-26-1996)
§ 54.10 ADJUSTMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS.
   (A)    Each residential or commercial water and sewer customer of the city
shall be entitled to one adjustment in his or her water and sewer bill after it
has been determined that a leak exists on the customer’s side of the meter
within a 12-month period.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, a leak shall be presumed to exist if,
and only if, a customer’s water bill for a one month period totals an amount
greater than or equal to two times the customer’s average water bill for the
12-month period immediately preceding the month for which the customer received
the higher bill. In all other cases, the customer shall have the burden of
proving that a leak existed by presenting to the City Manager, or his or her
designee, the affidavit of a plumber or an employee of the City’s Water
Department stating that a leak existed for the month in question and, further,
the affidavit must state that the leak has been repaired.
   (C)   If the City Manager or his or her designee determine that a leak
existed in accordance with division (B) above, the customer shall be entitled
to pay an adjusted rate for the month in which the leak existed. The adjusted
rate shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   The customer shall be charged, for the month in which the leak
existed, the current water rate multiplied by the customer’s average water
usage for the 12 months immediately preceding the month in which the leak
existed.
      (2)   In the event that the customer has been connected to the city water
and sewer facilities for less than 12 months, the customer shall be charged,
for the month in which the leak existed, the current water rate, multiplied by
the average water usage for the number of months that the customer has been
connected to the city water and sewer facilities.
      (3)   In the event that the leak existed during the first month following
connection, the city may use the previous property owner’s average billing,
calculated in the same manner as described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)
above, as a guide in calculating the adjusted rate, or bring the issue before
the City Commission for resolution.
   (D)    Each customer shall be entitled to only one adjustment to a water and
sewer bill in a 12-month period. It shall be the customer’s responsibility to
notify the city of the leak within three months from the start of the leak. The
adjustment shall be made to one month’s bill only. If a leak persists for more
than one month, the customer shall be responsible for all of his or her water
bills for the duration of the leak, and any adjustment granted by the city
shall only be applied to the month in which the leak was discovered or reported
by the customer.
   (E)   If the customer is not satisfied with the adjustment made by the City
Manager, or his or her designee, the customer can appeal the adjustment
decision to the City Commission by notifying the City Manager, in writing,
within five days of the adjustment decision, of the customer’s intent to
appeal. All appeals shall be brought before the City Commission during the
regularly scheduled City Commission meeting which occurs on the fourth Monday
of the month following the month in which the City Manager received the written
notice of the customer’s intent to appeal. The City Commission shall review the
decision of the City Manager, or his or her designee, and shall uphold the
decision unless the City Commission determines that the decision was clearly
erroneous.
(Ord. 610.7-5-96, passed 5-16-1996; Ord. 2024-017, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 54.11 ADJUSTMENT OF SEWER BILLS FOR IRRIGATION OF LAWNS AND ANNUAL FILL- UP
OF SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Irrigation charges. Separate irrigation charges apply to any meter
that is used solely for the irrigation of lawns, gardens, landscaped areas,
orchards and similar horticultural uses where the metered water is not returned
to the city wastewater system. The water used shall be billed on the customer’s
water bill in the same manner and at the same rate as all other water used by
said customer, as said rates are amended from time to time. Provided, however,
that no sewer charges shall apply for the water used for the aforementioned
purposes only. Further, the customer shall not connect the separate meter used
for irrigation purposes to any plumbing fixture located inside the residence or
dwelling.
   (B)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   Property owners with swimming pools filled with water from the city
water system will be eligible for an annual fill-up adjustment for sewer
charges when the pool is filled with water through the meter. Adjustments will
not be made for refilling after initial fill-up. Residents are required to call
city hall to inform staff when they want to fill their pool(s). The billing
clerk will adjust the sewer bill for the water used to fill the pool. Pools
that contain less than 10,000 gallons shall not be eligible for the sewer
adjustment under this section. Upon request by the city or upon installation of
a new pool, the property owner(s) shall provide the city with documentation
stating the pool’s total water gallon volume as received from the manufacturer
or contractor that installed the pool. The water used to fill the pool shall be
billed on the customer’s water bill in the same manner and at the same rate as
all other water used by said customer, as said rates are amended from time to
time.
      (2)   If a swimming pool or truck (used by a delivery service purchasing
water for a swimming pool and the like) is filled by a fire hydrant, the water
must be metered and charged to the customer at the metered rate. Sewer charges
will not be charged. Only Public Works or City Fire Department employees are
allowed to use the fire hydrants to fill swimming pools.
(Ord. 610.6-10-2012, passed 10-22-2012; Ord. 2017-007, passed 5-8-2017; Ord.
2024-017, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 54.12 USE OF METER DATA LOG INFORMATION.
   The following procedures shall be implemented upon adoption of this section:
   (A)   The city will allow two customer requested re-reads per calendar year,
without cost to the customer. For purposes of this section, “re-read” shall
mean that the city meter reader shall be required to go to the customer’s
address and obtain a supplementary meter reading in addition to the original
reading used to calculate the customer’s monthly utility bill.
   (B)   If a customer requests that city personnel obtain a third re-read (per
calendar year), the customer will be required to pay a fee of $50 for the third
and each additional re-read, and the customer will be eligible to participate
in the data logging program, if applicable. The data logging program is a tool
to detect leaks based on consumption patterns. Data extracted from the meter
reading software will be provided to the customer that will reflect historical
consumption patterns over a period of several days and/or weeks.
   (C)   If, at any point throughout this process, it is determined that an
issue does exist with the customer’s city service lines or water meter, or if a
meter is tested and fails, the $50 fee will be waived and/or refunded.
   (D)   If repairs or meter replacements are necessary, the customers
participating in the data logging program can request a second data log at no
additional cost. This data will be provided subsequent to completion of any
repairs or meter replacements or at the conclusion of the leak investigation in
order to assure the city and the customer that any service issues have been
resolved.
   (E)   Regardless of any of the foregoing, any customer may request to
participate in the data logging program for the fee of $50 at any time. Upon
request and the payment of the fee, the customer shall be entitled to receive
said customer’s usage and consumption patterns from the meter reading software
system.
(Ord. 2016-006, passed 6-27-2016; Ord. 2024-017, passed 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 55: SEWER USE; USER CHARGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Purpose and policy
   
55.002   Administration
   
55.003   Abbreviations
   
55.004   Definitions
   
55.005   Confidential information
   
55.006   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
55.007   Pretreatment charges and fees
Sanitary Sewer Extensions
   
55.015   Policy
   
55.016   [Reserved]
   
55.017   Preliminary review of application; feasibility
   
55.018   Action of City Commissioners
   
55.019   Construction of extension; bond required
   
55.020   Applicant or surety default
   
55.021   Privately funded sewer extensions
Requirements for Proper Sewage Disposal
   
55.035   Disposal of human and animal excrements
   
55.036   Discharge of sewage or polluted waters
   
55.037   Septic tank, cesspool, privy vault and privy construction
   
55.038   Requirement of sewer connections
   
55.039   Private sewage disposal
   
55.040   Storm sewer discharge
Building Sewer Permits and Proper Connections
   
55.050   Sewer connections
   
55.051   Building sewer permits
   
55.052   Cost of sewer connection
   
55.053   Users per connection
   
55.054   Use of existing sewer connection
   
55.055   Design consideration for building sewers
   
55.056   Maintenance of building sewers
   
55.057   Illegal connections
   
55.058   Design considerations for connecting building and public sewers
   
55.059   Inspection of building sewers
   
55.060   Excavation
Prohibitions and Limitations on Wastewater Discharges
   
55.070   Wastes excluded from discharge into the city’s sewerage system
   
55.071   Limitation on wastewater discharges
   
55.072   Local limits
   
55.073   Limitation on bypass
   
55.074   Dilution
   
55.075   Concentration limits for categorical industries subject to production-
based standards
   
55.076   Combined waste stream formula
   
55.077   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
55.078   Pretreatment facilities
   
55.079   Additional pretreatment measures
   
55.080   Hauled wastewater
User Compliance with Waste Discharge Standards
   
55.090   Regulatory actions
   
55.091   Right of entry
   
55.092   Personal injury
   
55.093   Protection from accidental discharge
   
55.094   Reporting of accidental discharge
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
55.105   Wastewater analysis
   
55.106   Individual wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
55.107   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
55.108   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
55.109   Individual wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
55.110   Application signatories and certifications
   
55.111   Individual wastewater discharge permit decisions
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
   
55.125   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration
   
55.126   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents
   
55.127   Permit issuance process
   
55.128   Permit modification
   
55.129   Individual wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
55.130   Individual wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
55.131   Individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance
Reporting Requirements
   
55.145   Baseline monitoring reports
   
55.146   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
55.147   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
55.148   Periodic compliance reports
   
55.149   Reports of changed conditions
   
55.150   Reports of potential problems
   
55.151   Reports from unpermitted users
   
55.152   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
55.153   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
55.154   Analytical requirements
   
55.155   Sample collection
   
55.156   Date of receipt of reports
   
55.157   Recordkeeping
   
55.158   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
55.170   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
55.171   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
55.185   Notification of violation
   
55.186   Consent orders
   
55.187   Show cause hearing
   
55.188   Compliance orders
   
55.189   Cease and desist orders
   
55.190   Administrative fees
   
55.191   Emergency suspensions
   
55.192   Termination of discharge
   
55.193   Supplemental enforcement action
   
55.194   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Charges and Fees (User Charge System)
   
55.205   Purpose of charges and fees
   
55.206   Classification of user
   
55.207   Types of charges and sewer fees
   
55.208   Basis of determination of charges
   
55.209   User charges
   
55.210   Financial records
   
55.211   Annual review of operation and maintenance charges
   
55.212   Wastewater characteristics
 
   
55.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the city and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works; and
      (5)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits and/or general permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established in this chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the
Superintendent to a duly authorized city employee.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP    Best Management Practice
BMR    Baseline Monitoring Report
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
mg/l   milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC    Significant noncompliance
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Scientific terms not otherwise defined herein shall be as adopted in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendment of 1972,
also known as the Clean Water Act, (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et. seq.), and subsequent
amendments.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Refers to the Director of the Division of Water;
Department of Environmental Protection; Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or the regional
administrator of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3) above may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for
five days at 20º C., expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
55.070 (40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one- half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CITY. The City of Franklin or City Commission.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all components, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Such pollutants as biochemical oxygen demand,
suspended solids, pH and fecal coli form bacteria, plus any additional
pollutants as are now and may be in the future specified and controlled in the
city’s NPDES permit for its wastewater treatment works where said works have
been designed and used to reduce or remove such pollutants.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (LEGAL AUTHORITY). Refers to the Superintendent and/or
city as defined in this section, or if the city’s pretreatment program is not
approved, to the approval authority as defined in this section.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the United States, or
where appropriate, the term may be used as a designation for the administrator
or other duly authorized official of said Agency, or the Regional Water
Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly
authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a NEW SOURCE.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A single sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard
to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined in this chapter.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source into the POTW (including holding tank waste
discharged into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of discharge which introduces pollutants into the
sanitary sewer from any non-domestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c)
or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes resulting from industrial and
manufacturing processes and/or trade and business establishments, as distinct
from sanitary wastewater.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONITORING. The measurement, continuous or intermittent, of wastewater
quality and quantity.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
for treated wastewater discharge issued to the city pursuant to Section 402 of
the Act.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Section 307 (b) and (c) of the Act which applies to industrial users. These
standards are further segregated as:
      (1)   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Establishes
prohibitions on pollutants introduced into the sanitary sewer system pursuant
to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5 and applies to all industrial users.
      (2)   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. Specifies
quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and applies only
to specific industrial categories.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of subsection (1)(b) or (c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment;
         (b)   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this subsection.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, limited liability
company, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the
feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
The definition includes all federal, state and local governmental entities.
   pH. The measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. The dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (such as, pH, temperature,
TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT FACILITY or PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of
pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of
pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the treatment system. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the
pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on a user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROCESS WATER. See INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the wastewater treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for
which such works were designed and constructed. The term operations and
maintenance includes replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. Liquid wastes discharges from: the sanitary
conveniences at dwellings (including apartment houses and motels), office
buildings, industrial plants, or institutions and from the non-commercial
preparation, cooking and handling of food, as distinct from industrial wastes.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. A combination of the water carrying wastes from
residences, business building, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, storm and gray (household showers and
dishwashing operations and the like) waters as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in subsections (3) and
(4) of this section, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to city’s finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in 40 C.F.R. 403.12(q), together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (2)
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial
user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(6), determine
that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §§
55.070 through
55.080. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION or SIC. A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
is in suspension or floating on the surface in water, sewage, or other liquids,
and which are removable by laboratory filtering, expressed in terms of weight
and concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   TWENTY-FOUR HOURS, FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample consisting
of several effluent portions collected during a 24-hour period in which the
portions of sample are proportionate to the flow to combine to form a
representative sample.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which is designated to
provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40
C.F.R. 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.006 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be
applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other industrial user
that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in this chapter.
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
in this chapter, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
oils and grease, and 1.2 for ah other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as these
terms are defined in this chapter (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Superintendent determines
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include, but not be limited to, a
violation of Best Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.007 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (B) of this section associated with the enforcement activity taken by
the Superintendent to address IU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this ordinance and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 55.015 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that the city’s sewer construction program
shall, subject to the provision of this section, be primarily directed toward
general construction of necessary trunk lines and maintenance of existing
lines, that the city will not henceforth be involved in construction of
collector systems within or incident to any new development or extension of any
existing development, and, that new construction of sanitary sewer trunk lines
from existing sewer lines to new or proposed developments be carried out, so
far as is practicable, pursuant to this section. It is the further policy of
the city that the cost of extending the city’s sewer system shall be borne by
those persons receiving the benefit of such extensions.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.016 [RESERVED].
§ 55.017 PRELIMINARY REVIEW OF APPLICATION; FEASIBILITY.
    Upon receipt of an application, the City Clerk shall note thereon the date
and hour of receipt of the application and shall forward a copy of same,
together with supporting documents and drawings, to the city’s consulting
engineer, or other authorized representative, for preliminary review. The
consulting engineer, shall within a reasonable time from the date of his or her
receipt of the application, make a written report to the City Manager or
Superintendent, which shall contain a preliminary evaluation of the feasibility
of the requested extension, based upon all relevant factors, including but not
limited to physical characteristics of the subject land area, cost economics,
and existing long-range, comprehensive sewerage development plans. This report
shall classify the requested extension as either feasible or not feasible, and
shall contain a construction cost estimate, including costs for preparation of
contract documents, construction drawings, and all other necessary materials.
If the requested extension is classified not feasible, the report shall contain
a brief explanation of the proposal deficiencies. If the requested extension is
classified as feasible, the report shall contain a statement of the dollar
amount of sewer tap fees which would be necessary over a stated time period to
make the proposed extension cost effective. In the event that the total cost of
the proposed construction, because of the need for the city’s ability to
service areas other than the subject area of the application from the requested
sewer extension, exceeds the estimated cost of an extension sufficient only to
service the subject area of the application, the consulting engineer shall note
that fact in his or her report and shall include a statement of the estimated
cost of constructing a facility sufficient to service only the subject area of
the application. Immediately upon receipt of this report, the City Manager
shall file the original thereof with the application and shall direct copies of
the report to the Superintendent and to the applicant.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.018 ACTION OF CITY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   A proposed extension which has been classified not feasible shall not
be presented to the City Commissioners for consideration. Such an application
may be modified and resubmitted to the City Clerk as a new application, in
which case the City Clerk shall collect an application fee, the same as if the
modified application were an original application.
   (B)   A proposed extension which has been classified feasible shall be
presented to the City Commissioners by the City Manager as soon as practicable
after the City Manager’s receipt of a copy of the consulting engineer’s report.
The applicant may be in attendance at this meeting. The applicant shall be
afforded an opportunity at the meeting, to be heard by the Commission
concerning the proposed extension and shall be subject to examination thereon.
   (C)   After the applicant has been afforded an opportunity to be heard
concerning the requested extension, the Commissioners shall, by appropriate
motion as seconded, vote by the majority of the members thereof in attendance
and approve or deny the application for extension of the city’s sanitary sewer
facilities.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall record the approval or disapproval of the
application in the minutes of the meeting and shall note the approval or
disapproval upon the face of the application. The City Clerk shall forthwith
notify the applicant of the City Commissioners’ action by certified mail, with
return receipt requested. Any approval made by the Commissioners under this
section shall be conditioned upon the applicant’s compliance with the provision
of §
55.019.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.019 CONSTRUCTION OF EXTENSION; BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any extension of the city’s sanitary sewer system approved by the City
Commissioners under this section shall be constructed by the contractor
approved by the city, subject, however, to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any applicant whose application hereunder has been approved shall in
writing guarantee that the city will receive total sewer tap fees from the
proposed extension in at least the amount and within the time period stated in
the consulting engineer’s report on the application. The applicant’s obligation
that the city will receive such amount of sewer taps within such time period
shall be secured by bond, with sufficient surety, or other approved security.
This bond shall be in an amount equal to the total dollar amount of tap fees
required by the consulting engineer’s report to be guaranteed by the applicant.
Liability of the applicant and his or her surety under the bond shall be
conditioned upon the city’s receiving the total dollar amount of tap fees
required by the consulting engineer’s report to be guaranteed by the applicant
within the time period set out in that report.
   (C)   Upon the applicant’s providing the written guarantee and bond provided
for hereinabove, the city shall, by and through its duly authorized officers
and agents, proceed to construct the requested sewer extension, by advertising
for and receiving bids for the construction of the proposed extension.
Construction of the proposed extension will be carried out as if the applicant
were in no manner involved therewith. All planning, construction supervision,
and any and all other phases of the construction of the subject extension shall
be carried on by the city’s authorized agent, and the applicant shall have no
interest in or control over the subject extension and/or the planning and/or
the construction thereof.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.020 APPLICANT OR SURETY DEFAULT.
   (A)   If at the expiration of the time period provided in the consulting
engineer’s report concerning the subject extension, the city has not received a
total dollar amount in tap fees from the subject extension equal to or greater
than the amount of such tap fees specified in the consulting engineer’s report,
the City Clerk, shall immediately upon the expiration of such time period
notify the applicant and his or her surety of that fact, by certified mail with
return receipt requested. The notice shall set forth the total amount of tap
fees received to date from the subject extension. The applicant and his or her
surety shall immediately upon receipt of such notice of deficiency be jointly
and severally liable to the city for payment of an amount equal to the
difference between the total amount of tap fees guaranteed by the applicant and
the total amount of tap fees received by the city during the specified time
period from the subject extension. Tap fees received by the city from a
collection system or other extensions of the sewer line for which application
was originally made and accepted shall not be considered in determination of
the deficiency, if any, in the tap fees guaranteed by the applicant or his
surety.
   (B)   Should the applicant and his or her surety fail to pay the city the
amount of the deficiency in sewer taps within ten days of their receipt of
notice thereof, the city will institute proceedings to collect the sums due and
for forfeiture of the bond, and the applicant and the surety shall be
responsible for all costs associated with said action as well as subject to a
penalty as set forth in §§
55.185 through
55.193 and
55.999.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.021 PRIVATELY FUNDED SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct a sanitary sewer line either as a
trunk line or a distribution line which shall be constructed and paid for by
persons other than the city, may make application to the city for such line(s)
to be accepted and maintained as a part of the city’s sewer system.
   (B)   Applications shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by a
development plat, and a topographical map shall be prepared by an engineer
licensed to practice in the Commonwealth of Kentucky which shall be to a scale
of no smaller than one-inch equals 100 feet, shall reflect the location of
existing sanitary sewer facilities with relation to the area proposed to be
served by the extension, and shall depict the proposed collection system, if
any, within the area (including size and location of proposed lines). An
application fee of $100 shall be collected by the City Clerk upon receipt of
each application, and all costs associated with the preparation and submission
of the application shall be paid by the applicant. The applicant shall be
further required to comply with all applicable rules of the County Planning and
Zoning Commission and state or federal regulations.
   (C)   Upon the applicant’s providing the written information set forth above
the applicant may proceed to construct the requested sewer extension.
Construction of the proposed extension and all planning, construction
supervision, and any and all other phases of the construction of the subject
extension shall be completed under the supervision and inspection of the
Superintendent and/or City Engineer. Specifically, the Superintendent and/or
City Engineer shall inspect and approve all phases of the construction, and no
lines shall be accepted by the city until certified by its engineer.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPER
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 55.035 DISPOSAL OF HUMAN AND ANIMAL EXCREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a user to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or any area under the jurisdiction of the said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.036 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE OR POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to directly discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the said city, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except in accordance with §
55.039.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.037 SEPTIC TANK, CESSPOOL, PRIVY VAULT AND PRIVY CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as hereafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.038 REQUIREMENT OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city or any area
under the jurisdiction of said city and abutting on any street, highway, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her expense to
connect such facilities directly with the reasonably available proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so. Sanitary sewer service shall be deemed
reasonably available by the Superintendent if there is an existing sanitary
sewer manhole within 500 feet of the owner’s property or, if after proper
request and approval, the city agrees to extend the sanitary sewer line and
install a manhole within 500 feet of the owner’s property line. Except that
sanitary sewer service shall not be deemed reasonably available if the property
owner should be required to bore under a railroad or major state highway.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.039 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of sewage by means other than the use of the available sanitary
sewage system shall be in accordance with local, county, state and federal law.
The disposal of sewage by private disposal systems shall be permissible only in
these instances where service from the available sanitary sewage system is not
available.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.040 STORM SEWER DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any user, without exception, to discharge sanitary
wastewater into the storm sewer system.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
BUILDING SEWER PERMITS
AND PROPER CONNECTIONS
§ 55.050 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized user shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.051 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
    Refer to Franklin-Simpson Zoning Regulations and/or the Subdivision
Regulations for the City of Franklin, Kentucky.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.052 COST OF SEWER CONNECTION.
    Refer to Franklin-Simpson Zoning Regulations and/or the Subdivision
Regulations for the City of Franklin, Kentucky.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.053 USERS PER CONNECTION.
    Refer to Franklin-Simpson Zoning Regulations and/or the Subdivision
Regulations for the City of Franklin, Kentucky.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.054 USE OF EXISTING SEWER CONNECTION.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.055 DESIGN CONSIDERATION FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the following
requirements:
   (A)   The minimum size of a building sewer shall be four inches.
   (B)   The minimum depth of a building sewer shall be 18 inches.
   (C)   Four-inch building sewers shall be laid on a grade greater than one-
eighth inch per foot. Larger building sewers shall be laid on a grade that will
produce a velocity when flowing full of at least two feet per second.
   (D)   Slope and alignment of all building sewers shall be neat and regular.
   (E)    Building sewers shall be constructed only of polyvinyl chloride pipe
with rubber compression joints of approved type or such other materials as may
be approved by the City Manager or Wastewater Superintendent.
   (F)   A cleanout shall be located five feet outside of the building, one as
it taps onto the utility lateral and one at each change of direction of the
building sewer which is greater than 45 degrees. Additional cleanouts shall be
placed not more than 75 feet apart at horizontal building sewers of four-inch
nominal diameter and not more than 100 feet apart, for larger pipes, and a
cleanout shall be located at the property line, where the service line connects
to the city’s main sewer and/or city tap. Cleanouts shall be extended to or
above the finished grade level directly above the place where the cleanout is
installed. A “T” (tee) “Y” (wye) sweep and one-eighth bend shall be used for
the cleanout base. Cleanouts shall not be smaller than four inches on a four-
inch pipe.
   (G)   Connections of building sewers to the public sewer system shall be
made at the appropriate wye or tee branch using compression type couplings or
collar type rubber joint with corrosion resisting or stainless steel bands.
Where existing wye or tee branches are not available, connections of building
services shall be made by either removing a length of pipe and replacing it
with a wye or tee fitting or installing a tee-saddle or tee-insert of a type
approved by the Superintendent. All such connections shall be made gas-tight
and watertight.
   (H)   The building sewer may be brought into the building below the basement
floor when gravity flow from the building to the sanitary sewer is at a grade
of one-eighth inch per foot or more if possible. In cases where basement or
floor levels are lower than the ground elevation at the point of connection to
the sewer, adequate precautions by installation of check valves or other
backflow prevention devices to protect against flooding shall be provided by
the owner. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer
at the expense of the owner.
   (I)   The method to be used in excavating, place of pipe, jointing, testing,
backfilling the trench, or other activities in the construction of a building
sewer which have not been described above shall conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city or to the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and Water Pollution Control Federal Manual of Practice No. 9. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   An installed building sewer shall be gas tight and water tight.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.056 MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   Each individual property owner or user of the POTW shall be entirely
responsible for the maintenance of the building sewer located on private
property. This maintenance will include repair or replacement of the service
line from the building owned by the private property owner to the edge of the
property line of the property owner as deemed necessary by the Superintendent
to meet specifications of the city. If it is determined by a property owner
that a problem exists in the sewer line between the property owner’s line, and
the city main sewer, the property owner may contact the Superintendent and
request that the line be repaired or cleaned so that it will continue to accept
effluent from the property owner’s building. However, if the Superintendent
and/or city employees determine that there is no blockage in the city’s portion
of the line, commonly referred to as the “tap,” or main sewer, or should it be
determined that the property owner has not installed a cleanout in accordance
with §
55.055 and has not installed a cleanout at the owner’s property line at grade
level, the property owner shall be assessed a service charge equal to the
actual cost incurred by the city in making the service call, or $50, whichever
is greater.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.057 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   No user shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of uncontaminated surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.058 DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR CONNECTING BUILDING AND PUBLIC SEWERS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.059 INSPECTION OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Sewer taps up to six inches and less than five feet in depth may be
installed by the city. A fee of $2,000 will be charged to cover the cost of the
tap. Alternatively, the tap may be installed by a city-approved contractor. All
taps over six inches or at a depth greater than five feet must be installed by
a city-approved contractor. All taps installed by a contractor must be
inspected by the Superintendent or his or her representative. An inspection fee
of $50 will be charged.
   (B)   The applicant for a building sewer tap shall notify the Superintendent
when the building is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.060 EXCAVATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS
ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGES
§ 55.070 WASTES EXCLUDED FROM DISCHARGE INTO THE CITY’S SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Unpolluted waters. This includes uncontaminated storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the (Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection). Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the (Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection), to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
      (2)   Solid or viscous waters. Solid or viscous substances which will or
may cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer, or otherwise interfere with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, cannery wastes, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, bulk solids, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains, spent hops, waste paper products, wood, plastic, tar, asphalt
residues, painting residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, and similar substances.
      (3)   Explosive mixtures. Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of
their nature or quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by
interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in
any other way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall a
wastestream exhibit a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140º F. (60º C.) using
the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.21. Prohibited materials include,
but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzine, toluene, xylene,
ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates,
promates, carbides, hydrides, and any other substances which have a closed cup
flashpoint of 140º F. (60º C.) or less, in any substance which the city, state,
or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the sanitary sewer
system.
      (4)   Improperly shredded garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly
shredded, see the definitions in this chapter. Garbage grinders may be
connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Corrosive wastes. Any waste which will cause corrosion or
deterioration of the wastewater treatment works. All wastes discharged to the
public sewer system must have a pH value in the range of six to nine standard
units. Prohibited material, include, but are not limited to, acids, sulfides,
concentrated chloride and fluoride compounds and substances which will react
with water to form acidic products.
      (6)   Oils and grease. Any waters or wastes containing fats, wax, grease,
or oil, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º or
150º F. (0º and 65 C).
      (7)   Noxious materials. Noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases,
which, either single or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life, or may be sufficient to prevent
entry into a sewer for its maintenance and repair.
      (8)   Discolored materials. Wastes with objectionable color in the sole
discretion of Superintendent or EPA, such as dye waste.
      (9)   Toxic substances. Any toxic substances in amounts exceeding
standards promulgated by the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to Section 307 (a) of the Act, and chemical elements
or compounds, phenols, or any other substances which are not susceptible to
treatment or which may interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of
the treatment system, or that will pass through the system.
      (10)   Radioactive wastes. Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued
by the appropriate authority having control over their use and which will or
may cause damage or hazards to the sewerage facilities or personnel operation
the system.
      (11)   High temperature wastes. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature
higher than 104º F., 40º C.
      (12)   Flow rate or concentration. Any pollutant, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like) released in a discharge at a flow rate
and/or pollutant concentration which will cause interference with the POTW.
      (13)   Toxic gases, vapors or fumes. Any pollutants which, either alone
or by interaction with other substances, produce toxic gases, vapors or fumes
within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems.
      (14)   Oil products. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or
products of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass
through at the POTW.
      (15)   Trucked or hauled pollutants. Any trucked or hauled pollutants,
except at discharge points designated by the Superintendent.
      (16)   Improperly shredded paper products. Any ground paper products such
as cups, dishes, napkins, milk products and the like shall not be discharged
into the sewerage works.
      (17)   Medical wastes. Except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (18)   Foaming. Detergents, surface- active agents, or other substances
that might cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (C)   Storing of substances. Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited
by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they
could be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.071 LIMITATION ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or convey, or permit, or allow to be discharged or
conveyed to a public sewer any wastewater containing pollutants of such
character or quantity that will:
   (A)   Require unusual attention or expense to handle at the wastewater
treatment facilities;
   (B)   Constitute a hazard to human or animal life, or to the stream or water
course receiving the treatment plant effluent;
   (C)   Violate National Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by the EPA with
appropriate effective dates; or
   (D)   Cause the treatment plant to experience problems with unit operations,
sludge handling and disposal options or compliance with its NPDES permit
limitations.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.072 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   In order to ensure optimum and efficient operation of the city
wastewater treatment facilities, a table of “Protection Criteria Parameters and
Local Effluent Limits for Industrial Users” is included as Table 1. This table
establishes maximum effluent limits for individual discharges.
Table 1
Protection Criteria Parameters and
Local Effluent Limits for Users
Constituent Daily Maximum Concentration (mg/l)
Table 1
Protection Criteria Parameters and
Local Effluent Limits for Users
Constituent                  Daily Maximum Concentration (mg/l)
Compatible pollutants:        
   Biochemical oxygen dema300
   Chemical oxygen demand 600
   Total suspended solids 300
   Nitrogen (Total Kjeldah60
   Nitrogen (ammonia)     20
   Fats, oil and grease   100
   pH                     6-9
Incompatible pollutants:
   Arsenic                0.6
   Cadmium                0.007
   Chromium, total        0.88
 
   Chromium, hexavalent   No limit
   Copper                 0.39
   Cyanide, amenable      0.16
   Lead                   0.14
   Mercury                0.0005
   Nickel                 1.25
   Phosphorus (total)     10
   Selenium               .10
   Silver                 0.24
   Zinc                   2.5
Based on 24-hour flow proportional composite samples. Based on design capacity
of plant BDL (below detectable limit).
 
   (B)   Additional constituents shall be added as needed to protect the
treatment works.
   (C)   Dilution of any wastewater discharge for the purpose of satisfying
these requirements shall be considered a violation of the industrial permit and
this chapter.
   (D)   Slugs as defined in this chapter shall be avoided.
   (E)   Wastewater discharges which substantially differ in nature or
constituents from the users average discharge shall be prohibited unless prior
approval is obtained, in writing, from the Superintendent.
   (F)   In the event that the influent at the POTW reaches or exceeds
acceptable levels, the Superintendent shall initiate technical studies to
determine the cause of the influent violation and shall recommend to the city
the necessary remedial measures, including, but not limited to, recommending
the establishment of new or revised pretreatment levels for these parameters.
The Superintendent shall also recommend charges to any of these criteria in the
event that: the POTW effluent standards are changed, there are changes in any
applicable law or regulation affecting same, or changes are needed for more
effective operation of the POTW.
   (G)   In addition, wastes excluded from discharge into the city’s sewerage
system, as detailed in §
55.070 shall be part of the local effluent limits.
   (H)   The limits for compatible pollutants may be exceeded if it is
addressed in the industrial discharge permit and the applicable surcharge (§
55.209) is paid by the industry.
   (I)   National pretreatment standard: categorical standards or state
pretreatment standards shall govern if more stringent than the local limits
established above.
   (J)   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
individual wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-26-2018; Ord.
2023-004, passed 1-23-2023; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.073 LIMITATION ON BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Bypass not violating applicable pre-treatment standards or
requirements. An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pre-treatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the control authority (legal authority), if
possible, at least ten days before the date of the bypass.
      (2)   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pre-treatment standards to the control authority
(legal authority) within 24 hours from the time industrial user becomes aware
of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five days of
the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause, the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The control authority (legal authority) may waive the written report on a case
by case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Prohibition of bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited and the control authority (legal authority)
may take enforcement action against an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment down time. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment down time or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user submitted notices as required under division
(C) of this section.
      (2)   Approval. The control authority (legal authority) may approve an
anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the control
authority (legal authority) determines that it will meet the three conditions
listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.074 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.075 CONCENTRATION LIMITS FOR CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIES SUBJECT TO PRODUCTION-
BASED STANDARDS.
   (A)   When limits in a categorical pre-treatment standard are expressed only
in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the control authority
(legal authority) may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed
either as massed of pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for
purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual
industrial users.
   (B)   The control authority (legal authority) calculating equivalent mass-
per-day limitations under division (A) above shall calculate such limitations
by multiplying the limits in the standard by the industrial user’s average rate
of production. This average rate of production shall be based not upon the
designed production capacity, but rather upon a reasonable measure of the
industrial user’s actual long-term daily production, such as the average daily
production during a representative year. For new sources, actual production
shall be estimated using projected production.
   (C)   The control authority (legal authority) calculating equivalent
concentration limitations under division (A) of this section shall calculate
such limitations by dividing the mass limitations derived under division (B) of
this section by the average daily flow rate of the industrial user’s regulated
process wastewater. This average daily flow rate shall be based upon a
reasonable measure of the industrial user’s actual long-term average flow rate,
such as the average daily flow rate during the representative year.
   (D)   Equivalent limitations calculated in accordance with division (B) and
(C) of this section shall be deemed pre-treatment standards for the purposes of
this chapter. Industrial users will be required to comply with the equivalent
limitations in lieu of the promulgated categorical standards from which the
equivalent limitations were derived.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.076 COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA.
   Where processed effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters other
than those generated by the regulated process, fixed alternative discharge
limits may be derived by the control authority (legal authority), or by the
industrial user with the written concurrence of the control authority (legal
authority). These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed effluent.
When deriving alternative categorical limits, the control authority (legal
authority) or industrial user shall calculate both an alternative daily maximum
value using the daily maximum value specified in the appropriate categorical
pre-treatment standard and an alternative consecutive sampling day average
value using the monthly average value specified in the appropriate categorical
pretreatment standard. The industrial user shall comply with the alternative
daily maximum and monthly average limits fixed by the control authority (legal
authority) until the control authority (legal authority) modifies the limits or
approves an industrial user modification request. Modification is authorized
whenever there is a material or significant change in the values used in the
calculation to fix alternative limits for the regulated pollutants. An
industrial user must immediately report any such material or significant change
to the control authority (legal authority). Where appropriate new alternative
categorical limits shall be calculated within 30 days.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.077 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
55.150 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.078 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
ordinance and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in this subchapter within
the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the Superintendent,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.079 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.080 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW under the Wastewater
Superintendent’s supervision and discretion. The city shall charge $100 per
1,000 gallons of septic tank waste introduced into the POTW.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
Penalty, see §
55.999
USER COMPLIANCE WITH WASTE
DISCHARGE STANDARDS
§ 55.090 REGULATORY ACTIONS.
   Disposal into the sewer system by any person is unlawful except in
compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (FWPCAA), and any more stringent state
and local standards. If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to
be discharged to the public sewers, and contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §§
55.070 through
55.080 of this chapter or the criteria established by the federal government on
discharge of toxic and hazard materials or violates the treatment facilities
protection criteria and which in the judgment of the Superintendent and/or the
Division of Water, Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
   (A)   Require an individual wastewater discharge permit as described in §§
55.105 through
55.111;
   (B)   Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater; this includes the right to
disconnect the users connection with sewer system (§
55.191(A));
   (C)   Require a discharge to demonstrate that in-plant modifications will
reduce or eliminate the discharge of such substances in conformity with this
chapter;
   (D)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities or flow
equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate objectionable characteristics or
substances so that the discharge will not violate these rules and regulations;
   (E)   Require grease, oil, and sand interceptors (separation facilities)
when in the opinion of the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection;
   (F)   Require the person making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay an
additional cost or expense incurred by the city for handling and treating
excess loans imposed on the treatment system; and
   (G)   Take such other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable or
necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.091 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of these rules and
regulations, the Superintendent, or his or her authorized representative, upon
the presentation of credentials, may enter upon any property or premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of copying any records required to be kept
under provisions of this chapter and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.12(o);
inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; sampling any discharge of
wastewater to the treatment works; and in addition, representatives of the POTW
shall be authorized to inspect any and all areas of the industrial user’s
premises and determine independently of information supplied by industrial user
their compliance or noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 403.8(f)(B)(6)(v). The
Superintendent, or his or her authorized representative, may enter upon the
property at any hour under emergency circumstances. EPA and/or State Department
for Environmental Protection representatives may also enter upon properties or
premises in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.092 PERSONAL INJURY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
this chapter, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by community employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.093 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Each user shall prove protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner or operator’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be approved by him before
construction of the facility, except as provided in the major industrial
discharge permit. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify his facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.094 REPORTING OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   If for any reason a facility does not comply with or will be unable to
comply with any prohibition or limitations in this chapter or the users permit,
the facility responsible for such discharge shall immediately notify the
Superintendent so that corrective action may be taken to protect the treatment
system. In addition, a written report addressed to the Superintendent detailing
the date, time and cause of the accidental discharge, the quantity and
characteristics of the discharge and corrective action taken to prevent future
discharges shall be filed by the responsible facility within five days of the
occurrence of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER
DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 55.105 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within ten days of the request.
The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.106 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
55.107 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to any and/or all sanctions set out in this
chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.107 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
ten days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with § 155.109 of this chapter, and
shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after ten days of
the effective date of this chapter, except in accordance with an individual
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.108 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
55.109 of this chapter, must be filed at least ten days prior to the date upon
which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.109 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. The Superintendent may require users to
submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities and
plant production processes on the premises;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      (4)   Time and duration. Time and duration of discharges.
      (5)   Location. The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the
permit.
      (6)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in this chapter and/or 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (7)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
55.154 of this chapter. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine
compliance with the standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
55.155 of this chapter.
      (8)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on §
55.148(B) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(e)(2)).
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.110 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement as follows:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent pursuant to §
55.004 must annually submit the signed certification statement in §
55.158(B).
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.111 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 55.125 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire. All
wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to this chapter and all
other regulations, user charges and fees established by the city.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.126 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with §
55.129 of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law;
      (6)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary; and
      (7)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user’s permit.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.127 PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Public notification. The Superintendent will publish in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice with the
jurisdiction served by the POTW, or on a web page, a notice to issue a
pretreatment permit, at least ten days prior to issuance. The notice will
indicate a location where the draft permit may be reviewed and an address where
written comments maybe submitted.
   (B)   Permit appeals. The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the
issuance of an individual wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including
the user, may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of an
individual wastewater discharge permit within ten days of notice of its
issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the individual
wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this
objection, and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the individual wastewater discharge permit
shall not be stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Superintendent fails to act within ten days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider an
individual wastewater discharge permit, not to issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or not to modify an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial
review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative individual wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by
filing a complaint with the Simpson Circuit Court for Simpson County, Kentucky
within 30 days from the issuance of any final written decision of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.128 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city’s POTW, city personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
55.129.
   (B)   The Superintendent may modify a general permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (3)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (4)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.129 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice
to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.130 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
55.149 of this chapter;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.131 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
55.109 of this chapter, a minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration of the
user’s existing individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.145 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B). At least 90 days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical industrial
users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard,
shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B). A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Required information. All information required in §
55.109(A)(l)(a) and (b), (A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(6).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
55.109(A)(7)(a) through (e).
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 C.F.R. 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the control authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §§
55.154 and
55.155;
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures; and
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
55.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
55.146 of this chapter.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
55.158(A) of this chapter and signed by an authorized representative as defined
in §
55.004.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.146 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
55.145(D) of this chapter:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.147 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
55.109(A)(6) and (7) and
55.145(B)(2) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in this
chapter, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
55.158(A). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
55.155.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.148 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (C) of this section, all users must,
at a frequency determined by the Superintendent submit no less than twice per
year (June and December or on dates specified) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
user must submit documentation required by the superintendent or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   The city or Superintendent may reduce the requirement for periodic
compliance reports (see division (A) and 40 C.F.R. 403.12(e)(1)) to a
requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the EPA/state or other authority
including, but not limited to the Superintendent, where the industrial user’s
total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of the following:
      (1)   5,000 gallons per day, as measured by a continuous effluent flow
monitoring device unless the industrial user discharges in batches;
      (2)   0.37 pounds per day of BOD (or biochemical oxygen demand); and
      (3)   0.01% of the maximum allowable headworks loading for the pollutants
as set forth below:
 MAHL* mg/L 0.01% mg/L
             MAHL* mg/L  0.01% mg/L
Arsenic      2.649       0.0003
Cadmium      0.949648    0.00009
Chromium     117.313     0.012
Hex Chromium 22.21776    0.0002
Copper       2.0016      0.0002
Cyanide      0.45601     0.00005
Iron         155.0470154 0.0155
Lead         1.55124     0.0002
Mercury      1.140912    0.0001
Nickel       5.56327     0.0006
Silver       4.62438     0.0005
Zinc         7.68471     0.0008
*   Denotes maximum allowable headworks loading
 
      (4)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in
the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
55.006. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the Superintendent, decreasing the
reporting requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are
not representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (C)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
55.158(A).
   (D)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (E)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
55.155, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.149 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §
55.131 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
55.128 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.150 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.151 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.152 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the city
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the results of this
sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user. Provided, however, that any sampling performed by the city
shall be at the cost of the industrial user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.153 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this section need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
55.149. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
55.145,
55.147 and
55.148.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.154 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that 40 C.F.R. Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.155 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period. Further, the Superintendent reserves the
right to control the frequency of monitoring and/or sample collection.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
55.145 and
55.147 (40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
55.148 (40 C.F.R. 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.156 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.157 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and any other
documentation required by the Superintendent. Records shall include the date,
exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking
the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These
records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. This
period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been specifically
notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.158 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
55.110; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
55.145(B)(5); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
55.147; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
55.148(A) through (D); and users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
55.148(B)(4). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
55.004:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the Superintendent pursuant to §§
55.004 and
55.110(C) must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements. This certification must accompany
an alternative report required by the Superintendent:
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
_____, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from __________, _________ to ________, __________ [months, days, year]:
      (a)   The facility described as __________ [facility name] met the
definition of a non-significant categorical industrial user as described in
__________;
      (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
      (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information.
      ___________________________________ ____________________________________
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
55.148(B) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of
the user.
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 C.F.R. ______.
[specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
______ (list pollutant(s)) in the wastewaters due to the activities at the
facility since filing of the last periodic report under §
55.148(A).
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 55.170 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated not less than annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (D)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter. Further, the location of
any monitoring facility shall provide ample room in or near the monitoring
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples and analysis
and, whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities should be provided in accordance with the Supervisor’s requirements
and all applicable local construction standards and specifications, and such
facilities shall be constructed and maintained in such manner so as to enable
the Supervisor to perform independent monitoring activities.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.171 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the Simpson Circuit Court.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
55.999
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 55.185 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.186 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance,
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
55.188 and
55.189 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.187 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user as defined in §
55.004 and required by §
55.110(A). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.188 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.189 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as maybe needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.190 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
the maximum allowable under state law, such as $5,000, plus actual damages
sustained by the city or POTW per violation per day for as long as the
violation(s) continue(s). In addition to the above-described penalty and
damages, the Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court
costs, and any and all other expenses of his/her enforcement activities
including, but not limited to special sampling and monitoring expenses, to the
extent allowable by state or federal law. Such fines shall be assessed on a
per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after ten calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within ten days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.191 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
55.192 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.192 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
55.130, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of any of the pretreatment standards in this chapter.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
55.187 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.193 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Penalties for late reports. A penalty of $100 shall be assessed to any
user for each day that a report required by this chapter, a permit or order
issued hereunder is late, beginning five days after the date the report is due.
Actions taken by the Superintendent to collect late reporting penalties shall
not limit the Superintendent’s authority to initiate other enforcement actions
that may include penalties for late reporting violations.
   (B)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue
an individual wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the
city, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be
necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
   (C)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to issue or
reissue an individual wastewater discharge to any user who has failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained financial
assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its
discharge.
   (D)   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties. The Superintendent may
decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater discharge permit to any
user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as
a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
   (E)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, water service to the user may be severed. Service will recommence,
at the user’s expense, only after the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its
ability to comply.
   (F)   Informant rewards. The Superintendent may pay up to $500 for
information leading to the discovery of noncompliance by a user. In the event
that the information provided results in a civil penalty or an administrative
fine levied against the user, the Superintendent may disperse up to 10% of the
collected fine or penalty to the informant. However, a single reward payment
may not exceed $5,000.
   (G)   Contractor listing. Users which have not achieved compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements are not eligible to receive
a contractual award for the sale of goods or services to the city. Existing
contracts for the sale of goods or services to the city held by a user found to
be in significant noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may
be terminated at the discretion of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.194 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection (3) are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
55.070(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
55.070(B) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that
its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the users prior discharge when the
city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
Interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
CHARGES AND FEES (USER
CHARGE SYSTEM)
§ 55.205 PURPOSE OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Waste water revenues and expenses shall be separated from other
accounts, such as the Water Department. All revenues generated by the user-
charge rates shall be sufficient to cover the expenses of waste water
treatment, along with sufficient funds to maintain a replacement reserve.
   (B)   A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the city which will
enable it to comply with the revenue requirements of Section 204 of the Clean
Water Act. Charges and fees shall be determined in a manner consistent with
regulations of the Federal Grant Program to ensure that sufficient revenues are
collected to defray the cost of operating and maintaining, including
replacement, adequate wastewater collection and treatment systems. Specific
charges and fees shall be adopted by a separate chapter; this section describes
the procedure to be used in calculating the charges and fees. Additional
charges and fees to recover funds for capital outlay, bond service costs, and
capital improvements may be assessed by the city. These charges and fees shall
be recovered through the user classification established below.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.206 CLASSIFICATION OF USER.
   All users shall be classified by the Superintendent either by assigning each
one to a “user classification” category according to the principal activity
conducted on the user’s premises, by individual user analyzation, or by a
combination thereof. The purpose of such collective and/or individual
classification is to facilitate the regulation of wastewater discharges based
on wastewater constituents and characteristics.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.207 TYPES OF CHARGES AND SEWER FEES.
   The charges and fees as established in treatment works schedule of charges
and fees, may include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   User classification charges;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring requested by user;
   (C)   Fees for permit applications;
   (D)   Appeal fees;
   (E)   Charges and fees based on wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (F)   Fees for use of garbage grinders; and
   (G)   Fees for holding tank wastes.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.208 BASIS OF DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges and fees may be based upon a minimum basic charge for each
premise, computed on the basis of normal wastewater from a domestic premise
with the following characteristics:
 
BOD                  300 milligrams per liter
COD                  600 milligrams per liter
TKN                  60 milligrams per liter
NH3-N                20 milligrams per liter
Suspended Solids     300 milligrams per liter
Fats, Oil and Grease 100 milligrams per liter
Phosphorus           10 milligrams per liter
 
   (B)   The charges and fees for all classification of users, other than the
basic domestic premise, shall be based upon the relative difference between the
average wastewater constituents and characteristics of that classification as
related to those of a domestic premise. The charges and fees established for
permit users shall be based upon the measured or estimated constituents and
characteristics of the wastewater discharge of that user which may include, but
not be limited to, BOD, COD, SS, NH3-N, TKN, Oil and Grease, Chlorine, and
Phosphorus demand, and volume.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.209 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall be levied a charge for payment of bonded indebtedness
of the treatment system and for that user’s proportionate share of the
operations and maintenance costs of the system. A surcharge will be levied
against those users with wastewater that exceeds the strength of normal
wastewater.
   (B)   The user charge will be computed from a base charge plus a surcharge.
The base charge will be the user’s proportionate share of the costs of
operation and maintenance (O&M) including replacement for handling its periodic
volume of normal wastewater.
      (1)   Operation and maintenance user charges. Each user’s share of
operation and maintenance costs will be computed by the following formula:
   Cu   =   Ct x (Vu) Vt
   Where:   Cu = User’s charge for O&M per unit of time
   Ct   =   Total O&M cost per unit of time
   Vt   =   Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time
   Vu   =   Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
      (2)   Surcharges. The surcharge will be the user’s proportionate share of
the O&M costs for handling its periodic volume of wastewater which exceeds the
strength of BOD5, suspended solids, and/or other elements in normal wastewater
including toxic wastes.
      (3)   Method of billing surcharges. The excessive strength surcharge
shall be based on a formula (see example below) with the total applied to the
monthly bill of the affected users:
      Example Formula:
      [A(G-300)+B(H-300)+C(I-600)+D(J-60)+E (K-20)+F(L-100)] x 8.34 x M =
Surcharge Payment ($/month)
      Formula Code:
         A   =   Surcharge rate for BOD in $/pound
         B   =   Surcharge rate for SS in $/pound
         C   =   Surcharge rate for COD in $/pound
         D   =   Surcharge rate for TKN in $/pound
         E   =   Surcharge rate for NH3-N in $/pound
         F   =   Surcharge rate for oil/grease in $/pound
         G   =   User’s average BOD concentration in mg/L
         H   =   User’s average SS concentration in mg/L
         I   =   User’s average COD concentration in mg/L
         J   =   User’s average TKN concentration in mg/L
         K   =   User’s average NH3-N concentration in mg/L
         L   =   User’s average oil/grease in mg/L
         M   =   User’s monthly flow (water usage) to wastewater works in
million gallons
      (4)   Phosphorus. Due to the fact that phosphorus is treated differently
by the Kentucky Division of Water and through the KPDES permit, the city must
treat phosphorus separately as set forth in this section. The phosphorus limit
for wastewater placed in the system by a user is 10.0 mg/L. This is also set
forth in the tables attached to this chapter. Any user submitting wastewater
with a phosphorus limit over 10.0 mg/L shall be charged a phosphorus surcharge
rate (PSR) of $3.47 per pound for each pound of phosphorus entering the system
over the 10.0 mg/L limit. This surcharge is calculated based on the actual
costs for removing one pound of phosphorus, which is currently $2.57 per pound,
plus a 35% administrative and treatment costs factor, which equates to the
$3.47 per pound phosphorus surcharge rate, in addition, any user that submits
wastewater into the system with a phosphorus amount of 60 mg/L or greater will
be surcharged at the aforementioned rate, plus the user will receive a notice
of violation which can include, but not be limited to any and all fines or
additional charges as set forth in the sewer use ordinance (SUO) and the
Pretreatment Enforcement Manual.
   (C)   No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the wastewater
works contain less than mg/L of BOD, mg/L of SS, or mg/L of other pollutants,
as listed.
   (D)   The values of parameters used to determine user charges may vary from
time to time. Therefore, the Superintendent is authorized to modify any
parameter or value as often as necessary. Review of all parameters and values
shall be undertaken whenever necessary; but in no case less frequently than
annually.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.210 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for revenues
generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.211 ANNUAL REVIEW OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES.
    The city shall review not less often than annually the wastewater
contribution of users, the total cost of operations, maintenance, and
replacement (OM&R) of the wastewater works, debt service obligations, and user
charge rates. Based on such review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the
schedule of user charge rates to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain an equitable distribution of OM&R costs among users of the
treatment system;
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements; and
   (C)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2024-018, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 55.212 WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS.
   The wastewater characteristics of each industrial user shall be determined
by monitoring or where monitoring is not feasible, wastewater characteristics
may be estimated using historical records, data from similar industrial users
and the like. After initiation of the charges and fee system. Significant
industrial users shall be monitored on a regular basis, not less often than
annually. Monitoring of minor industries may be done intermittently. The city
has developed a definition of major and minor industry and a monitoring program
for each which reflects its relative impact on the cost of construction of the
treatment works (such information is available at the Superintendent’s office.
Monitoring shall be conducted during periods of normal discharge.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 55.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the
Simpson Circuit Court through the city’s attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order,
or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the city for a maximum civil penalty of the maximum allowed under state law,
but not less than $1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or
other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day
during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than the maximum fine
allowed under Kentucky law per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more
than one year, or both.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
the maximum fine allowable under state law, or be subject to imprisonment for
not more than one year, or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state
law.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who
falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than the maximum fine allowable under state law per violation,
per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than the maximum fine allowable under state law per violation,
per day, or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the city’s enforcement response
plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action against any user when
the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 610.1-07-08-13, passed 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 56: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
56.01   Findings
   
56.02   Authority
   
56.03   Definitions
   
56.04   Establishment of Stormwater Management Fund
   
56.05   Purposes of the Fund
   
56.06   Stormwater management fee
   
56.07   Classification of property for purposes of determination of the
stormwater management fee
   
56.08   Base rate and equivalent residential unit (ERU)
   
56.09   Schedule of monthly rates for stormwater management fee
   
56.10   Assessment notices
   
56.11   When stormwater management fee payable; penalties; lien on rental
property; abatement of small amounts due
   
56.12   Request for correction of a stormwater management fee
§ 56.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city maintains a system of storm and surface water management
facilities, including, but not limited to, inlets, conduits, manholes,
channels, ditches, drainage easements, retention and detention basins,
infiltration facilities, and other components, as well as natural waterways.
   (B)   The stormwater system in the city requires regular maintenance and
improvements.
   (C)   Stormwater quality is continuously degraded due to erosion and the
discharge of nutrients, metals, oil, grease, toxic materials, and other
substances into and through the stormwater system.
   (D)   The public health, safety, and welfare are adversely affected by poor
ambient water quality and flooding.
   (E)   All real property in the city either uses or benefits from the
maintenance of the stormwater system.
   (F)   The extent of use of the stormwater system by each property is
dependent on factors that influence runoff, including land use and the amount
of impervious surface on the property.
   (G)   The cost of improving, maintaining, operating, and monitoring the
stormwater system should be allocated, to the extent practicable, to all
property owners and/or occupants of or on the land based on the impact of
runoff from the impervious areas of their property on the stormwater management
system.
   (H)   Management of the stormwater system to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare requires adequate revenues, and it is in the interest of
the public to finance stormwater management adequately with a user fee system
that is reasonable and equitable so that each user of the system pays to the
extent to which they contribute to the need for it.
   (I)   The city will develop a stormwater quality program through the NPDES
Phase II storm water program as required by state and federal law.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.02 AUTHORITY.
   Authority for the adoption of this system of user fees to fund the
implementation of storm water management programs is derived from KRS 91A.510.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings indicated:
   ASSESSMENT ROLL. The official listing of assessments of real property as
maintained in the Simpson County Property Valuation Office.
   BASE RATE. The stormwater management fee charged on a base unit (equivalent
residential unit). The monthly stormwater management fee for a single- or
multi-family residential property (SMFR) in the city equals the base rate. See
§
56.09.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Real property which has been altered from its natural
state by the addition of any improvements such as buildings, structures, or
other impervious areas.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU. The average impervious surface area
associated with a single family residential property in the city as calculated
using statistical methods.
   FEE or STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE. The charge to the property owner and/or
occupant established under this chapter and levied on the owners and/or
occupants of parcels or pieces of real property to fund the costs of storm
water management and of operating, maintaining, and improving the storm water
system in the city.
   FISCAL YEAR. Means July 1 of the calendar year to June 30 of the next
calendar year, both inclusive.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Developed areas of land which either prevent, retard, or
significantly impede the infiltration of surface and storm water into the soil
mantle and/or cause water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an
increased rate of flow from that present under natural conditions prior to
development. Typically impervious surface areas include, but are not limited to
roofs, sidewalks, walkways, patios, swimming pools, private driveways parking
lots, access extensions, alleys and other paved, engineered, compacted or
gravel surfaces that prevent or significantly impede the natural infiltration
of surface and storm water into the soil.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building with two or more residential dwelling
units.
   NPDES PHASE II PERMIT. Means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Phase II Storm Water Permit as mandated by United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   NON-DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Any real property not altered from its natural
state.
   NON-SINGLE or MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL or NON-SMFR. Developed property other
than single- or multi-family residential property (SMFR). Such property shall
include, but not be limited to commercial properties, industrial properties,
parking lots, recreational and cultural facilities, hotels and offices. There
is specifically exempted from this chapter all property that is classified as
tax exempt from property tax by the Kentucky Revised Statutes and owned by non-
profit organizations including, but not limited to governmental entities,
schools and churches, except to the extent said tax exempt property is leased
to or for a for-profit business, manufacturing or commercial enterprise or is
leased as a single or multi-family residential (SMFR) property as defined in
this section. To the extent that the tax exempt property is subject to the
stormwater management fee under this definition, the tenant shall be liable for
the payment of the fee subject to §
56.11(B).
   PROPERTY OWNER/DEVELOPER/ APPLICANT/OCCUPANT. The person, firm, partnership,
or corporation who is the owner of record as listed in the assessment rolls in
the office of the Simpson County Property Valuation Administrator and/or the
lessee, tenant, or occupant of or on the property which is subject to the fee
(s) implemented pursuant to this chapter.
   SINGLE- or MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL or SMFR PROPERTY. A developed property
which serves the primary purpose of providing a permanent dwelling unit and
which is classified as residential in the office of Planning and Zoning and/or
the assessment rolls in the office of the Simpson County Property Valuation
Administrator. For purposes of this definition, each individual residential
unit in a multi-family dwelling will be considered as a separate family unit or
SMFR and charged the base rate. See definition of BASE RATE above and §
56.09.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FUND or FUND. The Fund created by this chapter to
operate, maintain, and improve the city stormwater system.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The planning, design, engineering, construction,
regulation, improvement, repair, maintenance and operation of facilities and
programs relating to storm water, flood plains, flood control, grading,
erosion, pollutant capture, and/or transformation and sediment control.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. The primary system or network of storm and surface water
management facilities including, but not limited to inlets, conduits, manholes,
natural streams and sinkholes, channels, ditches, drainage easements, retention
and detention basins, infiltration facilities, and other components, as well as
all natural waterways. Public roads and public sidewalks are considered part of
the storm water collection system.
   WATER. Any storm water, surface water, snow melt or groundwater.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The stormwater management program is established and the stormwater
system is provided to protect the waterways and land in the city by managing
flooding and to benefit the natural environment. The cost of designing,
developing, improving, operating, maintaining, and monitoring the stormwater
system required in the city should therefore be allocated to the extent
practicable to all property owners and/or occupants of land based on their
impact on the stormwater system. In order to provide revenue to fund those
costs and to fairly allocate those costs, a Stormwater Management Fund ("the
Fund") is established.
   (B)   All revenues collected for the purpose of stormwater management from
user fees, grants, permit fees, and other charges collected under this chapter,
shall be deposited into the Fund. All disbursements from the Fund shall be for
the purposes of the Fund as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.05 PURPOSES OF THE FUND.
   The Fund shall be used for the following purposes:
   (A)   The acquisition by gift, purchase, or condemnation of real property,
and interests therein, necessary to construct, operate, and maintain stormwater
management facilities.
   (B)   All costs of administration and implementation of the stormwater
management program, including the establishment of reasonable operation and
capital reserves to meet budgeted, unanticipated or emergency stormwater
management requirements.
   (C)   Engineering and design, debt service and related financing expenses,
construction costs for new facilities, and enlargement or improvement of
existing facilities.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance of the stormwater system.
   (E)   Monitoring, surveillance, and inspection of stormwater control
devices.
   (F)   Water quality monitoring and water quality programs.
   (G)   Retrofitting developed areas for pollution control.
   (H)   Inspection and enforcement activities.
   (I)   Costs of public education related to stormwater and related issues.
   (J)   Billing and administrative costs.
   (K)   Other activities which are reasonably required.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.06 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   Except as provided for below in §
56.07(C), a monthly service fee is imposed upon all real property in the city
beginning no earlier than July 1, 2015 to fund stormwater management programs.
This service fee shall be known as the Stormwater Management Fee ("Fee"). The
Fee is based upon:
   (A)   The extent to which runoff from each property creates the need for the
stormwater management program;
   (B)   The amount of impervious area on each property; and
   (C)   The costs of implementing a stormwater management program.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.07 CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINATION OF THE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   For purposes of determining the Stormwater Management Fee, all properties in
the city are classified into one of the following classes:
   (A)   Single- or multi- family residential (SMFR) property. The Board of
Commissioners finds that the contribution to runoff of most parcels of real
property in the city classified as SMFR is similar and that it would be
excessively and unnecessarily expensive to determine precisely the square
footage of the improvements (such as building, structures and other impervious
areas) on each parcel. Therefore, each SMFR property in the city shall be
charged a flat Stormwater Management Fee, per single family property or
residential dwelling unit in multi-family residential properties (as the case
may be), equal to the base rate, as provided in §
56.08.
   (B)   Non-single or non-multi family residential (Non-SMFR). The fee for
non-SMFR property in the city shall be the base rate multiplied by the
numerical factor obtained by dividing the total impervious area (square feet)
of the property by the Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). The impervious
surface area for non-SMFR property is the square footage for the buildings and
other improvements on the property. At the sole discretion of the Board of
Commissioners, the impervious surface area of non-SMFR property may be
approximated through site examination, mapping information, aerial photographs,
and other available information. The minimum stormwater management fee for non-
SMFR property shall be equal to the base rate for SMFR property. See §§
56.08 and §
56.09.
   (C)   Non-developed property. There is no fee for non-developed property.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.08 BASE RATE AND EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU).
   A monthly base rate for the stormwater management fee is established for all
single-family residential property, with each single residential unit being one
ERU. The base rate shall also be charged for each residential dwelling unit in
a multi-family residential property. The ERU for the city base rate shall be
3,813 square feet for single-family residential and for each residential
dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property (SMFR). The base rate that
shall be charged for each single-family residential unit and for each
residential dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property shall be $2
per month.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.09 SCHEDULE OF MONTHLY RATES FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   The following schedule of rates shall apply to each property owner. This
schedule includes the rate for the stormwater fees.
 
Rate Category                        Rate per Month
Single- or Multi-Family Residential  $2 base rate
(SMFR)
                                     $2 Multiplied by the numerical factor
Non-Single Family Residential (Non-  obtained by dividing the total
SMFR)                                impervious area (in square feet) of the
                                     property by one equivalent residential
                                     unit (3,813 sq. ft.)
 
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.10 ASSESSMENT NOTICES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may, but is not required to, send
assessment notices for the fee to property owners and/or occupants prior to the
billing for the fee.
   (B)   If assessment notices are sent, the notice shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The classification of the property for purposes of determining the
fee.
      (2)   For property classified as non-SMFR, the following will also be
included:
         (a)   The impervious surface area of the property (in square feet);
and
         (b)   The method by which the impervious surface area of the property
was determined: that is whether the computation of the impervious surface area
of the property is based on information in the Simpson County Property
Valuation Office, site examination, mapping information, aerial photographs, or
other methods.
      (3)   The amount of the base rate (i.e. the single- or multi-family
residential (SMFR) fee), and for non-single or non-multi family residential
(Non-SMFR), the number of base units on the property.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.11 WHEN STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE PAYABLE; PENALTIES; LIEN ON RENTAL
PROPERTY; ABATEMENT OF SMALL AMOUNTS DUE.
   (A)   The fee shall be billed on the Franklin municipal utility bill on the
same cycle and frequency as the utility bill for the property. The Board of
Commissioners shall determine the most effective method of billing. Billings
for any particular billing cycle shall be made by the due date shown on the
bill. Any payment not received by the delinquency date as shown on the utility
bill shall be considered delinquent, and the city may disconnect and terminate
utility service(s) to the premises and pursue collection remedies in accordance
with all applicable sections of the city’s code relating to the collection of
delinquent accounts. Said sections are incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   If a bill is rendered to a party who is not the property owner and the
bill becomes unpaid and/or delinquent, then the property owner shall bear the
responsibility of payment.
   (C)   A delinquent fee that is not paid by the delinquency date shown on the
bill will incur a penalty of 10% of the bill.
   (D)   The fee, including the penalty of 10% of the total bill, when overdue,
shall constitute a lien on the real property and may be collected by a suit
against the property owner and/or occupant or by and through an in rem action
against the property.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners may abate the fee, including penalties, if
the cost of collection is reasonably estimated to exceed the amount of the fee,
including penalties, due and payable.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 56.12 REQUEST FOR CORRECTION OF THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   A property owner or occupant, other than a property owner or occupant
of an SMFR property which was charged the base rate per single family or per
residential dwelling unit (in the case of multi- family residential units), may
request correction of the fee by submitting the request, in writing, to the
city, attention City Manager's Office, within 30 days after the date the
assessment notice or the utility bill is mailed or issued to the property
owner. Grounds for correction of the fee include:
      (1)   Incorrect classification of the property for purposes of
determining the fee;
      (2)   Errors in the square footage of the impervious surface area of the
property;
      (3)   Mathematical errors in calculating the fee to be applied to the
property; and
      (4)   Errors in the identification of the property owner and/or occupant
of a property subject to the fee.
   (B)   The Public Works Office shall make a determination within 60 days
after receipt of the property owner's or occupant's completed written request
for correction of the fee. The City Manager's decision on a request for
correction of the fee shall be final.
   (C)   A property owner or occupant must comply with all rules, regulations
and/or procedures adopted by the Board of Commissioners when submitting a
request for correction of the fee, and must provide all information necessary
for the Public Works Office to make a determination on a request for correction
of the fee. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
grounds for denial of the request.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 3-23-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   VEHICLE CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Complying with traffic officer’s signals
   
70.03   Pedestrians
   
70.04   Traffic control signals
   
70.05   Limits and restrictions on Kenneth Utley Drive and Ditmore Ford Road
   
70.06   Operation of golf carts on city streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any vehicle designated as such by KRS 189.910.
   ELECTRIC LOW-SPEED SCOOTER. A device that:
      (1)   Weighs less than 100 pounds;
      (2)   Is equipped with wheels;
      (3)   Is equipped with handlebars;
      (4)   Is equipped with a brake adequate enough to stop and park the
device;
      (5)   Is designed to be stood or sat upon;
      (6)   Is propelled by an electric motor, human power, or both; and
      (7)   Is designed to operate at a maximum speed of 20 miles per hour, on
a paved level surface, with or without human propulsion.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them, and includes off-street parking
facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned, except
for hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   HIGHWAY WORK ZONE. That portion of a highway and the affected area adjacent
to a lane, berm, or shoulder, including a sidewalk, upon which construction,
reconstruction, resurfacing, maintenance, inspection, or other work of that
nature is being conducted by a government agency, private contractor, or
utility company.
   MOTOR TRUCK. Any motor propelled vehicle designed for carrying freight or
merchandise. It shall not include self-propelled vehicles designed primarily
for passenger transportation, but equipped with frames, racks or bodies having
a load capacity of not exceeding 1,000 pounds.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles, as defined under VEHICLE except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires
while being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not
travel more than five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality;
      (8)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power; and
      (9)   Electric low-speed scooters.
   OPERATOR. The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   SEMITRAILER. A vehicle designed to be attached to, and having its front end
supported by, a motor truck or truck tractor, intended for the carrying of
freight or merchandise, and having a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
   SHARP CURVE. A curve of not less than 30 degrees.
   STEEP GRADE. A grade of exceeding 7%.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor truck or truck tractor,
but supported wholly upon its own wheels, intended for the carriage of freight
or merchandise, and having a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor propelled vehicle designed to draw and to support
the front end of a semitrailer. The semitrailer and the TRUCK TRACTOR shall be
considered to be one unit.
   UNOBSTRUCTED HIGHWAY. A straight, level, first-class road upon which no
other vehicle is  passing or attempting to pass, and upon which no other
vehicle or pedestrian is approaching in the opposite direction, closer than 300
yards.
   VEHICLE. All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the Commonwealth; and all vehicles passing over or
upon the highways.
(KRS 189.010, 189.011) (1980 Code, § 520.1)
§ 70.02 COMPLYING WITH TRAFFIC OFFICER’S SIGNALS.
   (A)   Generally. No operator of a vehicle, after having received a visual or
audible signal from a traffic officer, or marked police vehicle, shall
knowingly file or attempt to elude any traffic officer by willful or wanton
disregard of such signal so as to interfere with or endanger the operation of
the police vehicle, or the traffic officer or other vehicles or pedestrians,
nor shall he or she increase the speed of his or her vehicle or extinguish the
lights of his or her vehicle in an attempt to elude or flee.
(KRS 189.393)
   (B)   Duty in case of accident. Any person, who, while operating a vehicle
on a highway, runs against or over, any other person, vehicle or personal
property in possession of any other person in such a manner as to injure the
other person or damage the property, shall immediately stop and ascertain the
extent of the injury or damage and render such assistance.
(1980 Code, § 520.2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at
intersection.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, where traffic control
signals are not in place or operation, the operator of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk at an intersection. If necessary in order to yield the right-of-way,
the operator shall slow down or stop.
   (C)   Whenever a vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection, to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass the stopped vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any other point other
that within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (2)   Any pedestrian crossing the roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (3)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in marked
crosswalk.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (D) every operator
of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing a child or a confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
   (E)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (F)   Pedestrians shall at all times, when walking on or along a highway,
walk on the left side of the highway.
   (G)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the operator of any private vehicle.
(KRS 189.570) (1980 Code, § 550.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   When traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent cross
walk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian- control signal, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular red signal alone shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until a green indication is shown,
except as follows: the driver of a vehicle which is stopped as close as
practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection in obedience
to a red or stop signal, and with the intention of making a right turn, may
make such right turn, after stopping, unless an official sign has been erected
prohibiting such movement, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and
other traffic lawfully proceeding through the intersection. The Commission may
prohibit any such right turn against a steady red signal at any intersection,
which prohibition shall be effective when an official sign prohibiting such
movement is erected at the intersection.
      (2)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrian facing a steady red signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (D)   Other. In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1980 Code, § 530.1)
§ 70.05 LIMITS AND RESTRICTIONS ON KENNETH UTLEY DRIVE AND DITMORE FORD ROAD.
   Kenneth Utley Drive and Ditmore Ford Road in the city and county shall be
restricted to residential commuter traffic, recreational traffic utilizing the
community park, and other non-commercial traffic customary in the normal course
of rural road travel, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Regular and/or weekly residential garbage pick-up provided by approved
waste haulers licensed for such business with the city and/or county, including
traffic to and from the County Convenience/Recycling Center;
   (B)   School bus and other pupil transportation vehicles used for the
regular transportation of school children to and from school; and
   (C)   Motor vehicles specifically exempted by KRS 189.2225(3), 189.2226 and
any other applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 620.3-05-2013, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 70.06 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   As used in this section, GOLF CART shall mean any self-propelled
vehicle that is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course,
and as further defined in Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   All public streets under the jurisdiction of the city with a speed
limit of 35 miles per hour or less may be used for the operation of golf carts.
   (C)   Any golf cart operating on streets under the jurisdiction of the city
shall be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Simpson County
Sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure
that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The proof of
inspection document issued by the Simpson County Sheriff shall constitute the
permit required from the city. The proof of inspection/permit issued by the
Simpson County Sheriff shall be kept in the golf cart at all times of operation
on a public roadway. This permit shall be valid as long as the original
permittee owns the golf cart.
   (D)   Any permitted golf cart shall be insured in compliance with KRS
304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall be
maintained inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public roadway.
   (E)   The operator of the golf cart shall not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
   (F)   The operator shall have a valid motor vehicle operator’s license in
his or her possession.
   (G)   The golf cart shall only be operated on public streets between sunrise
and sunset.
   (H)   The permitted golf cart shall display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in
compliance with KRS 189.820.
   (I)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway shall be subject
to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
   (J)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a golf cart that is
used on a public roadway with a speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less to
attain direct access to a golf course or to golf carts that have to access or
cross a roadway while following a golf cart path on a golf course.
   (K)   A golf cart permitted by this section is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from title requirements of KRS 186.020, vehicle
registration requirements of KRS 186.050 and emissions compliance certificates
pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates an section of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not provided shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
   (B)   Every person convicted for violation of §
70.02(A) shall be punished upon a first conviction by imprisonment for a period
of not less than five days nor more than 90 days, or by fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $500 or by both such fine and imprisonment for not less than
ten days nor more than six months, or by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $1,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
70.02(B) shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $2,000 or imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than one year or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates §§
73.03 or
73.04, or §
73.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
71.13 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 or be imprisoned for
not more than 30 days or both.
   (F)   Any person who violates §
71.14(B), shall be fined, for the first offense, not less than $100 nor more
than $500; for the second offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$500 and imprisoned for not less than three days nor more than six months; for
each subsequent offense. he or she shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500 and imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than 12 months.
   (G)   Any peace officer who violates §
71.14(C) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1030.2)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.02   Vehicles to keep right
   
71.03   Vehicles meeting other vehicles and animals
   
71.04   Turning and right-of-way at intersections
   
71.05   Overtaking vehicles; traffic lanes; following vehicles
   
71.06   Assistance in passing or overtaking
   
71.07   Passing cars receiving or discharging passengers
   
71.08   Signals
   
71.09   Speed
   
71.10   Starting a parked vehicle
   
71.11   Stopping, standing or repairing a vehicle on highway
   
71.12   Obstruction to operator’s view or control
   
71.13   Motor vehicle races on highways prohibited
   
71.14   Operating vehicle while under the influence of intoxicants or drugs
prohibited; presumption concerning intoxication
   
71.15   Motorcycles; regulations for operating and riding on
   
71.16   Stop signs
   
71.17   Driving over fire hose
   
71.18   Railroad trains; speed
   
71.19   Trains blocking streets
   
71.20   Unlawful use of engine and/or compression brakes
§ 71.01 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)    The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) (1980 Code, § 520.3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 VEHICLES TO KEEP TO RIGHT.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle when upon a highway shall travel upon the
right side of the highway whenever possible, and unless the left side of the
highway is clear of all other traffic or obstructions and presents a clear
vision for a distance of at least 150 feet ahead.
   (B)   The operator of any vehicle moving slowly upon a highway shall keep
his or her vehicle as closely as practicable to the right-hand boundary of the
highway, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles reasonably free passage to the
left, unless signage or markings indicate otherwise.
(KRS 189.300) (1980 Code, § 520.3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 VEHICLES MEETING OTHER VEHICLES AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   Two vehicles passing or about to pass each other in opposite
directions shall have the right-of- way, and no other vehicle to the rear of
these two vehicles shall pass or attempt to pass either of those vehicles.
   (B)   Vehicles proceeding from opposite directions shall pass each other
from the right, each giving to the other one-half of the highway as nearly as
possible.
   (C)   Every person operating a vehicle on a highway and approaching any
animal being ridden or driven, shall exercise every reasonable precaution to
prevent frightening the animal and to insure the safety of the person riding or
driving it. If the animal appears to be frightened, the operator, when
requested by a signal by the hand of the driver or rider of the animal, shall
not proceed further toward the animal, unless the movement is necessary to
avoid injury or accident, until the animal is under the control of its rider or
driver.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 TURNING AND RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When turning to the right at an intersection of highways, vehicles
shall keep to the right of the center, and in turning to the left, shall pass
to the left of the center, keeping, however, as far to the right as is possible
to do so and still pass to the left of the center. In this division (A), CENTER
means the meeting point of the medial lines of the two highways.
   (B)   Except as stated in divisions (C), (D), (E), (F) and (G) below, or
where otherwise directed by a traffic officer, the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way at the intersection of their paths to a vehicle
approaching from the right unless the vehicle approaching from the right is
further from the point of intersection of their paths than the first named
vehicle.
   (C)   A vehicle being operated upon any inter- county seat highway,
designated state highway or boulevard, or any street which by ordinance has
been designated as being equal in importance to a boulevard, need not yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle approaching from the right where such a highway
intersects another highway of lesser class. Any vehicle operated on the lesser
class highway shall stop before entering a highway of a higher class, except as
provided in division (F) below.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the driver of a vehicle
shall stop at the entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right-of-
way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through
highway or which are approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection on the through highway shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the through
highway.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances
to the intersection although part of a through highway does not form the
intersection. He or she shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
   (F)   Whenever it is determined, upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation at an intersection, that the assignments of rights-of-way
described in divisions (B), (C), (D) and (E) above are more restrictive than
necessary for the safe and efficient control of that intersection’s vehicular
and pedestrian movements, yield right-of-way signs may be installed on one or
more of the intersection approaches for the purpose of assigning right-of-way.
The driver of a vehicle, in obedience to a yield right-of-way sign, shall yield
right-of-way to vehicles and pedestrians not so obliged to yield or stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but such driver, having so yielded, may proceed at such time
as a safe interval occurs.
   (G)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway.
(KRS 189.330) (1980 Code, § 520.3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; TRAFFIC LANES; FOLLOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)    The driver of a vehicle overtaking other vehicles proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left of them and shall not again drive to the
right until reasonably clear of those vehicles. The person operating or in
charge of the overtaking vehicle shall sound his or her horn or other sound
device before passing. The driver of a vehicle overtaking street cars may pass
either to the right or left when so directed by a police officer, when on a
one-way street or where the location of the tracks prevents compliance with
this section, with regard for other traffic.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle or electric low-
speed scooter proceeding in the same direction shall:
         (a)   If there is more than one lane for traffic proceeding in the
same direction, move the vehicle to the immediate left, if the lane is
available and moving in the lane is reasonably safe; or
         (b)   If there is only one lane for traffic proceeding in the same
direction, pass to the left of the bicycle or electric low-speed scooter at a
distance of not less than three feet between any portion of the vehicle and the
bicycle or electric low-speed scooter and maintain that distance until safely
past the overtaken bicycle or electric low-speed scooter. If space on the
roadway is not available to have a minimum distance of three feet between the
vehicle and the bicycle, then the driver of the passing vehicle shall use
reasonable caution in passing the bicyclist or electric low-speed scooter
operator.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle may drive to the left of the center
of a roadway, including when a no passing zone is marked in accordance with
state law, to pass a person operating a bicycle or electric low-speed scooter
only if the roadway to the left of the center is unobstructed for a sufficient
distance to permit the driver to pass the person operating the bicycle or
electric low-speed scooter safely and avoid interference with oncoming traffic.
This division does not authorize driving on the left side of the center of the
roadway when otherwise prohibited under state law.
      (3)   The operator of a bicycle or electric low-speed scooter shall not
ride more than two abreast on a single highway lane unless operating on any
part of the roadway marked exclusively for bicycle or electric low-speed
scooter use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of traffic.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting the passing in safety, and not by
driving off the roadway unless the vehicle being passed is at a complete stop
and the passing may be made safely.
   (E)   A person shall not drive a vehicle to the left side of the center of
the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless the left side is clearly visible and free of oncoming traffic
for a sufficient distance ahead to permit overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
   (F)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly
marked lanes for travel in one direction, the following additional rules shall
apply:
      (1)   A person shall drive a vehicle as nearly as may be practical
entirely within a single lane and shall not move from that lane until the
driver ascertains that the movement can be made with safety;
      (2)   A person shall not drive a vehicle in the center lane except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn or where a center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding and is
signposted to give notice of the allocation;
      (3)   A person shall not operate a truck tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
in the leftmost lane except when entering or leaving a highway, yielding to
traffic coming onto the highway, or when traffic conditions exist which would
prohibit safe use of the right or center lanes; and
      (4)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and operators of vehicles shall obey the directions of these signs.
   (G)    On any limited access highway of four lanes or more with a posted
speed limit of at least 65 miles per hour, a person shall not operate a motor
vehicle in the leftmost lane, except when:
      (1)   Overtaking a slower vehicle;
      (2)   Yielding to traffic coming onto the highway; or
      (3)   Traffic or road conditions exist which would prohibit safe use of
the right or center lanes.
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in division (H)(3) below, the operator of a
motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable
and prudent, having regard for the speed of the vehicle and the traffic, upon
and condition of the highway.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (H)(3) below, the operator of any
motor truck, semitrailer truck, bus or heavy construction equipment unit when
traveling upon a highway outside of a business or residential district shall
not follow within 250 feet of another vehicle or equipment unit. This division
(H)(2) shall not prevent overtaking and passing, nor shall it apply to any lane
specially designated for use of motor trucks or semitrailer trucks, buses or
heavy construction equipment units.
      (3)   Divisions (H) (1) and (2) above shall not apply to a trailing
commercial motor vehicle involved in a platoon, as defined in state law, but
shall apply to the commercial motor vehicle leading a platoon.
(KRS 189.340) (1980 Code, § 520.3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 ASSISTANCE IN PASSING OR OVERTAKING.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed shall give
way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle, upon audible signal being
given by the overtaking vehicle, if the overtaking vehicle is a motor vehicle
or bicycle.
   (B)   In all cases of meeting, passing or overtaking of vehicles, such
assistance shall be given be the operator and occupants of each vehicle,
respectively, to the other as the circumstances reasonably demand, in order to
obtain clearance and avoid accidents.
(KRS 189.350) (1980 Code, § 520.3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 PASSING CARS RECEIVING OR DISCHARGING PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Whenever a car traveling upon rails placed in the center or
approximate center of a highway is stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers, every operator of a vehicle approaching the car from
the rear and proceeding in the same direction shall bring his or her vehicle to
a full stop and shall not start up or attempt to pass until the car has
finished receiving or discharging passengers.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall be applicable only in the event the bus bears
on the front and rear a plainly visible sign containing the words “school bus”
or “church bus”, whichever is appropriate, in letters not less than six inches
in height, which can be covered when the vehicle is not in use as a school or
church bus.
(KRS 189.370) (1980 Code, § 520.3-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety, and only
after a clearly audible signal has been given by sounding the horn if any
pedestrian shall be affected by the movement. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other vehicle may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of the intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously for not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before
turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
operator of any vehicle immediately in the rear when there is opportunity to
give such signal.
   (D)   All signals required herein shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal-lamp or lamps or a mechanical signal device, except that
the operator of a motor vehicle used for the transportation of persons for hire
with taxicabs excluded, the operator of a school or church bus, and the
operator of any vehicle so constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal
would not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle shall indicate
an intention to turn by use of a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device and must indicate an intention to stop or suddenly decrease speed by
illuminating at least one red or yellow light with the word “Stop” on it on the
rear of the vehicle.
   (E)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 SPEED.
   (A)   No operator of a vehicle upon a highway shall drive at a greater speed
than is reasonable and prudent, having regard for the traffic and for the
condition and use of the highway.
   (B)   Where no condition exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with division (B) below, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the limits
specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized shall be
lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified in this section or
established as hereinafter authorized shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For all vehicles, 35 mph in any business or residential district,
unless otherwise posted; and
      (2)   All vehicles, when using off-street parking facilities offered for
public use whether publicly or privately owned, 15 mph.
   (C)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-10) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle that is stopped or parked unless and until
the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 STOPPING, STANDING OR REPAIRING A VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing or cause it to stop
or to be left standing upon the main traveled portion of a highway; provided,
however, that this section shall not be construed to prevent parking off the
main traveled portion of a highway or street in a city or suburban area where
such parking is otherwise permitted. This division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the main traveled portion of
such a highway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid the occupation of the main traveled portion or impracticable to remove it
from the highway until repairs have been made or sufficient help obtained for
its removal;
      (2)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provisions
of any section of the state statutes or any traffic ordinance, regulation or
sign or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on such vehicle or discharging passengers
therefrom, provided that no such vehicle shall stop for such purposes at a
place on the highway which does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching
motor vehicles from both directions; or
      (4)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon such a
highway in violation of this section, he or she may move the vehicle, or
require the operator or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it, to a
position off the paved or improved or main traveled part of the highway.
   (D)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
      (5)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (E)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
   (F)   The restrictions in division (D) above shall not apply to sheriffs and
their deputies when operating properly identified vehicles during performance
of their official duties.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 OBSTRUCTION TO OPERATOR’S VIEW OR CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the operator to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the operator’s control over the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or street car shall ride in such a position
as to interfere with the operator’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere
with his or her control over the vehicle or street car.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 MOTOR VEHICLE RACES ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage upon any street or highway in motor vehicles racing,
drag racing or any other form of competition involving motor vehicles.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 OPERATING VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS OR DRUGS
PROHIBITED; PRESUMPTION CONCERNING INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person under the influence of intoxi- cating beverages or any drug
which may impair one’s driving ability shall operate a vehicle that is not a
motor vehicle anywhere in this state.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle anywhere in this state while
under the influence of intoxicating beverages or any drug which may impair
one’s driving ability.
   (C)   No peace officer shall fail to enforce rigidly this section.
   (D)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of divisions (A) and (B)
above, wherein the defendant is charged with having operated a vehicle while
under the influence of intoxicating beverages, the amount of alcohol in the
defendant’s blood, as determined at the time of making a chemical analysis of
his or her blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance, shall give rise to
the following presumptions:
      (1)   If there was 0.05% or less by weight of alcohol in such blood, it
shall be presumed that the defendant was not under the influence of
intoxicating beverages;
      (2)   If there was more than 0.05%, but less than 0.10% by-weight of
alcohol in such blood, such fact shall not constitute a presumption that the
defendant either was or was not under the influence of intoxicating beverages,
but such fact may be considered, together with other competent evidence, in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant; and
      (3)   If there was 0.10% or more by weight of alcohol in such blood, it
shall be presumed that the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
beverages.
   (E)   The provisions of division (D) above shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the
question of whether the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
beverages.
   (F)   No person may be compelled to submit to any test specified in division
(D) above, but his or her refusal to submit to such test shall result in
revocation of his or her license as provided in KRS 186.565(3).
   (G)   Only a physician, registered nurse or qualified medical technician,
duly licensed in the state, acting at the request of the arresting officer can
withdraw any blood of any person submitting to a chemical test under this
section or KRS 186.565.
   (H)   The person tested shall be permitted to have a duly licensed physician
of his or her own choosing administer a chemical test in addition to the one
administered at the direction of the police officer.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 MOTORCYCLES; REGULATIONS FOR OPERATING AND RIDING ON.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except when that person is in possession of a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, with a valid motorcycle operator’s endorsement thereon;
      (2)   Unless that person uses an approved eye-protective device, in the
manner prescribed by the Commissioner, at all times such vehicle is in motion;
and
      (3)   Unless the motorcycle is equipped with a rear-view mirror.
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride as a passenger on a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except on a seat permanently attached to that vehicle and
specifically designed to carry the operator or passenger in a safe manner;
      (2)   Except when using a footrest permanently attached to that vehicle
and specifically designed to carry that person in a safe manner; and
      (3)   Unless that person wears approved protective headgear, in a manner
prescribed by the Commissioner, at all times that the vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   As used in this section, MOTORCYCLE means any motor driven vehicle
having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on
not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding tractors
and vehicles on which the operator and passengers ride in an enclosed cab.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be placed at such intersections of streets as
directed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle, or vehicle of any kind, approaching any
intersection of any street where any stop sign appear, shall be brought to a
stop by the operator of the vehicle before the vehicle shall pass the sign and
before he or she shall attempt to come onto the intersecting street or cross
same.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over or damage in any manner any part of
the city fire hose.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 RAILROAD TRAINS; SPEED.
   No person shall operate or allow any locomotive, engine, passenger train,
freight, construction or other train or cars, or any engine upon any railroad
track passing through the city to run at a greater rate of speed than 35 mph
within the city.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.19 TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS.
   No person shall obstruct, endanger or delay the passage of any person or
vehicle upon any of the streets of the city by suffering or permitting an
engine or car or train of cars to remain in, upon or across any of the streets
of the city, other than McGoodwin Avenue and Cemetery Street, longer than five
minutes at a time.
(1980 Code, § 520.3-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.20 UNLAWFUL USE OF ENGINE AND/OR COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the excessive,
loud, and unusual or explosive use of engine and compressed air-braking devices
within designated areas in the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows: “Engine retarding brake” means a “dynamic
brake,” “Jacobs brake,” “C-brake,” “Paccar brake,” transmission brake or any
other engine retarding brake system that alters the normal compression of the
engine and subsequently releases that compression.
   (C)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
use, or operate, or cause to be used or operated within designated areas in the
incorporated areas of the city, any engine brake, compression brake, or
mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such
vehicle, unless such use is necessary to avoid imminent danger. Such
prohibition shall be applicable only to those public roads, streets or highways
or portions specifically identified in this section.
   (D)   Areas of prohibition. The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to
roads, streets, or highways traveling through or within 200 yards of a
residential zone, as those zones are designated by the Franklin-Simpson
Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the city Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Signage. Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “ENGINE BRAKE
ORDINANCE ENFORCED” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the
Board of Commissioners to advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in
this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or
“ENGINE BRAKE ORDINANCE ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without
approval from the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Transportation. The
provisions of this section shall be in full force and effect even if no signs
are installed.
   (F)   Exceptions. Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of
this section.
   (G)   Enforcement. Violations of this section shall constitute a violation,
and the penalty shall be a fine of not less than $20, nor more than $100 for
each violation of this section.
(Ord. 2017-017, passed 10-9-2017)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking regulations
   
72.02   Vicarious responsibility
   
72.03   Hearing
   
72.04   Vehicle impoundment without notice
   
72.05   Redemption of impounded vehicles
   
72.06   Resident parking in Downtown Historic District
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle parked on the streets of the city where there are
parking spaces designated by the Mayor and/or City Commission shall be parked
within such spaces.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle parked on the streets where there are no such
designated parking spaces shall be parked with one side parallel to the curb or
sidewalk, and the wheels or the side next to the curb or sidewalk shall be
placed at a distance not exceeding 18 inches from the curb or sidewalk.
   (C)   No motor vehicle shall be stopped or left standing on any street of
the city unless it is parked as designated in divisions (A) or (B) above;
however, a vehicle may be stopped for passengers or freight but only long
enough for that purpose and in no event longer than five minutes.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in parking shall be parked on the right-hand side
of the street and shall be turned to the right to park. All vehicles in leaving
their parking spaces shall be carefully moved therefrom to the left.
   (E)   No motor vehicle or other vehicle shall be parked within ten feet of a
fire hydrant or on or over a water meter.
   (F)   No vehicle may be parked continuously in or at one location on any
city street, roadway, or designated parking space or public parking lot for
more than 24 consecutive hours. Provided, however, that persons who reside in
the Downtown Historical District shall be exempt from this requirement, and the
provisions of §
72.06 shall apply to those residents unless they fail to visibly post the city
parking pass.
   (G)   No vehicle shall be parked in a manner that interferes with a trash
receptacle or dumpster access or removal.
   (H)   No vehicle shall be parked within 12 feet of the entrance to a
driveway or directly across from the entrance to a driveway.
   (I)   No vehicle shall be parked in or within 30 feet of an intersection.
   (J)   No vehicle shall be parked on a residential street unless parking has
been designated on said street by the Mayor or City Commission or parking in a
driveway is not practicable.
   (K)   No vehicle shall be parked within 12 feet of a mailbox, except after
5:00 p.m. or on days when mail is not delivered (Sundays and federal government
holidays). Provided, however, a resident will be allowed to park in front of
his or her own mailbox.
   (L)   No vehicle shall be parked on a curve if it obstructs the regular flow
of traffic or disrupts the clear and unobstructed view of approaching traffic.
   (M)   No vehicle shall be parked on the road side of any vehicle already
stopped or parked, whether legally or illegally (double parking), by the side
of a street or road.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a front yard, a side yard,
or in a rear yard except as provided in these ordinances or in the regulations
of the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle over or on any part of the city
sidewalk or curb that is parallel to or touching the city street or right of
way including, but not limited to any part of the sidewalk that is part of a
driveway.
   (P)   No vehicle shall be parked in such a manner that obstructs the free
use of the street, and an unobstructed width of not less than 15 feet of the
street must be left open for the free passage of other vehicles.
   (Q)   No vehicles shall be parked on/in any cul-de-sac.
   (R)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles shall be parked on city
streets or parking lots.
   (S)   No vehicles shall be stopped or parked in an alley, except for the
purpose of actively loading or unloading goods or passengers for a duration not
to exceed ten minutes.
   (T)   No heavy-duty commercial vehicles may be parked in residential areas
unless the vehicle is loading or unloading goods or has a service call in the
immediate area. In the case of loading or unloading or a service call, the
heavy-duty commercial vehicle shall not be parked in residential areas for
longer than a one- hour period.
   (U)   A vehicle parked in a designated, diagonal city parking space shall
not exceed 20 feet in overall vehicle length so as to not hinder normal flow of
vehicle traffic.
   (V)   Parking of any tractor, tractor trailer, trailer body, mobile home,
house trail er, camper trailer, RV, bus or any similar vehicle or equipment on
any street within any residential area or city square is prohibit except during
approved events on the square or when prior approval is obtained from the Board
of Commissioners
(1980 Code, § 540.1-1) (Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 VICARIOUS RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The person in whose name a vehicle is registered at the time of the
violation shall be absolutely responsible for all fines, fees and penalties. It
shall be no defense that the vehicle was illegally parked by someone other than
the registered owner, unless it is shown that at the time of the violation the
vehicle was stolen and not in the possession of the registered owner.
   (B)   An owner of a vehicle who is engaged in the business of renting or
leasing vehicles under written rental or leasing agreements shall not be liable
for parking fines and penalties imposed under this chapter on such rented or
leased vehicles, if within 15 days after receiving notice of the parking
violation, the lessor provides to the Police Department the true name, address
and driver's license number of the person in possession of the vehicle at the
time of the issuance of the citation. A lessor who fails to comply shall be
treated as any other owner.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 72.03 HEARING.
   (A)   Any person cited for a parking violation may contest the determination
that a violation occurred by requesting in writing a hearing before the
Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board. The request for a hearing shall be
delivered to the City Clerk at City Hall addressed to the Code Enforcement
Board within 14 days from the date of issuance of the parking citation. When a
hearing has been requested, the Board shall schedule a hearing for the next
regular meeting of the Board that will permit adequate notification to be made
to all parties. Not less than ten days before the date of the hearing, the
Board shall notify the requester of the date, time and place of the hearing.
The notice may be given by first class mail, by personal delivery, or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice. Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at
the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right
to a hearing to contest the citation and shall be deemed to have refused to pay
the fine levied by the citation. The Board shall enter a final order
determining the violation was committed and shall impose the appropriate civil
penalty. A copy of the order shall be furnished to the violator.
   (B)   At the hearing after consideration of the evidence, the Board shall
determine whether a violation was committed. Where it is not established that
the violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered.
Where it is established that a violation was committed, the Board shall uphold
the citation and order the owner to pay the citation within 14 days from the
date of the written order of the Board. A copy of such order shall be furnished
to the owner. Any person ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so within 14
days shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation and
a $15 late fee and all costs incurred by the city in collecting the civil
penalty shall be added to the original fine amount.
   (C)   The Board may consider the parking citation and any other written
report made under oath by the Code Enforcement Officer or other officer who
issued the citation in lieu of the officer's personal appearance at the
hearing. All other testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Formal
rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   An appeal from the Board's determination may be made to the Simpson
District Court within 30 days of the Board's written order. The appeal shall be
initiated by the filing ofa complaint and a copy of the Board's order in the
same manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and
as set out in the applicable state statutes. If no appeal of the final order of
the Board is filed within the time allowed, the Board's order shall be deemed
final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 72.04 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT WITHOUT NOTICE.
   A vehicle may be impounded without giving prior notice to its owner under
the following circumstances:
   (A)   The vehicle is impeding or likely to impede the normal flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (B)   The vehicle poses an immediate danger to the public safety;
   (C)   The vehicle is illegally parked within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (D)   The vehicle, without a valid designated plate or placard issued under
state law, is parked in a space clearly marked and designated for use by
disabled persons;
   (E)   A police officer reasonably believes that the vehicle is stolen;
   (F)   A police officer reasonably believes that the vehicle or its contents
constitute evidence of an offense and such impoundment is reasonably necessary
to obtain or preserve such evidence; provided, however, that nothing in this
section shall be construed to authorize seizure of a vehicle without a warrant
where a warrant would otherwise be required;
   (G)   The vehicle is parked in a public right-of-way or on other publicly
owned or controlled property in violation of any law, ordinance or regulation,
and there are two or more outstanding parking citations issued against the
vehicle that have not been responded to, appealed to the Code Enforcement Board
or paid, or none of the final orders of the Code Enforcement Board have been
appealed to Simpson District Court;
   (H)   The vehicle is abandoned or is a junk vehicle; or
   (I)   The vehicle is parked, stopped or standing upon a street or public way
in violation of any city ordinance or state statute at the time the citation is
issued.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 72.05 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles impounded by the city shall be redeemed only under the following
circumstances.
   (A)   Only the registered owner or other person entitled to possession based
on proof of ownership or right to possession may redeem an impounded vehicle. A
person redeeming an impounded vehicle must produce a valid driver's license. A
vehicle impounded for reasons of unpaid parking citations should only be
released upon proof that all penalties, fines or forfeitures currently owed by
the registered owner have been satisfied by full payment.
   (B)   Any person redeeming a vehicle impounded by the city shall pay the
towing contractor for costs of towing and impoundment prior to redeeming the
vehicle.
   (C)   The owner or other person entitled to possession of a vehicle which
has been impounded may challenge the validity of such impoundment by requesting
in writing a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   The hearing shall be conducted at the next regularly scheduled Code
Enforcement Board hearing date. Not less than ten days prior to the date set
for hearing, the Board shall notify the person requesting the hearing of the
date, time and place of the hearing. Any person requesting a hearing who
refuses or, except for good cause, fails to appear at the time and place set
for the hearing shall be deemed to have conceded on his and the owner's behalf
the validity of the impoundment.
   (E)   At the hearing after consideration of the evidence, the Board shall
determine whether the impoundment was valid and reasonable. Where it is not
established that the impoundment was justified, an order to that effect shall
be entered, and all fines and fees paid because of the impoundment shall be
returned. Where it is established that the impoundment was justified, the Board
shall uphold the impoundment and enter an order establishing all fines and
fees. A copy of such order shall be furnished to the owner or person appearing
on behalf of the owner. The Board may consider the parking citation and any
other written report made under oath by the officer who issued the citation in
lieu of the officer's personal appearance at the hearing.
   (F)   An appeal from the Board's determination may be made to the Simpson
District Court within 30 days of the Board's written order. The appeal shall be
initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the Board's order in the
same manner as any civil action under the Rules of Civil Procedure. If the
Court finds that the impoundment was justified, the owner shall be ordered to
pay to the city all fines, fees and penalties occurring as of the date of the
judgment.
   (G)   The city shall possess a lien on a vehicle impounded for all fines,
penalties and fees imposed thereon. Such lien shall be superior to and have
priority over all other liens except the towing company for its towing charges
and any person who claims a security interest on the vehicle. All vehicles
towed at the request of the city for violations of this chapter shall be towed
by companies approved by the city and stored at the location of the towing
company.
   (H)   If within ten business days of impoundment a vehicle has not been
claimed or a hearing has not been requested, a notice shall be mailed by
certified mail to the registered owner, if known, and lienholders of record,
affording such parties the right within ten days from the date of the notice to
claim the vehicle or request a hearing. The notice shall state that, if no
hearing is requested, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned unless the charges
thereon are paid within 45 days ofreceipt of the notice. After 45 days from the
date of the receipt of the notice, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and
the vehicle escheat to the city. If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the
city may obtain a certificate ofregistration and ownership from the Simpson
County Clerk pursuant to KRS 186.020 and either use the vehicle for
governmental purposes or sell the vehicle in accordance with the applicable
city policies or ordinances regarding disposition of surplus property. If the
vehicle is not suitable for use, it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
Nothing in these provisions shall otherwise affect the rights or obligations
between the owner of the motor vehicle and those persons who claim a security
interest therein.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 72.06 RESIDENT PARKING IN DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The City Commission has previously designated a certain defined area as the
Downtown Historic District. As the buildings in this area have been renovated,
there have been multiple residential units constructed within said buildings.
Accordingly, residents of those units should be allowed longer parking
privileges in the Downtown Historic District than those set forth in §
72.01(F). Therefore, the following shall apply to those residents:
   (A)   The city shall provide two parking passes per residential unit per
calendar year to the owner/landlord of the building containing a residential
unit at no cost to the owner/landlord. Owner/landlord shall provide the parking
passes to the tenants.
   (B)   Any person residing in a residential unit in the Downtown Historic
District that has the parking pass visibly displayed in his/her vehicle shall
be allowed to continuously park in or at one location on any city street,
roadway, or designated parking space or public parking lot in the Downtown
Historic District for a period of time not to exceed seven days without prior
notification of the Code Enforcement Officer. If a resident of the Downtown
Historic District needs to park his or her vehicle in one location for a longer
period of time, they may request an extension of time to park from the Code
Enforcement Officer, which request shall not be unreasonable denied.
   (C)   If a resident of a unit in the Downtown Historic District fails to
display the parking pass where it is visible to the Code Enforcement Officer or
other enforcement authorities, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
72.01 or §
72.06 shall be fined $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, and
$100 for the third and each subsequent offense.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall be a separate and distinct
offense. All penalties shall be payable within 14 days from the date of the
parking citation if the citation is not appealed. If the parking citation is
not appealed to the Code Enforcement Board and the civil penalty is not paid
within 14 days, the applicable civil penalty shall double. Any costs incurred
by the city in the collection of the parking citation penalty shall also be
added to the original fine amount.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Board may, in its discretion, increase the civil
penalties for any parking citations appealed to the Board and which are upheld
by the Board. The maximum civil penalty that the Code Enforcement Board may
impose shall be $100 per violation, except for parking in designated
handicapped zones and the maximum civil penalty that the Code Enforcement Board
may impose for that violation shall be $100 per violation.
   (D)   All parking violation payments shall be made to the City of Franklin
Finance Department.
(Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 73: VEHICLE CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
73.01   Equipment of vehicle not to be nuisance or menace
   
73.02   Time when lights must be on
   
73.03   Front light; flashing lights
   
73.04   Rear, side and clearance lights
   
73.05   Lights on vehicles in tow and projections
   
73.06   Brake lights
   
73.07   Horns and other sound devices
   
73.08   Brakes
   
73.09   Windows to be unobstructed; display of American flag; windshield wipers
   
73.10   Mirrors
   
73.11   Mufflers; noise regulation
   
73.12   Escaping contents
   
73.13   Vehicles with spikes
§ 73.01 EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLE NOT TO BE NUISANCE OR MENACE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the right of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (1980 Code, § 560.1-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 TIME WHEN LIGHTS MUST BE ON.
   (A)   Lights, when required on a vehicle shall be illuminated during the
period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, and at
such other times as atmospheric conditions render visibility as low as or lower
than is ordinarily the case during that period.
   (B)   Provisions as to distances that lights must be visible refer to
visibility under ordinary atmospheric conditions.
(KRS 189.030) (1980 Code, § 560.1-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 FRONT LIGHT; FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or moped shall be equipped
with at least two headlamps with at least one on each side of the front of the
motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the requirements and
limitations set forth in this section.
   (B)   Every motorcycle and moped shall be equipped with at least one and not
more than two headlamps which shall comply with the requirements and
limitations of this sections.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving
lamps or the auxiliary passing lamp or combination thereof on motor vehicles
other than a motor cycle or mopedshall be so arranged that the driver may
control the selection between distribution of light projected to different
elevations, subject to the following requirements and limitations:
      (1)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading;
      (2)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver; and
      (3)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or moped,
registered in this state after January 1, 1956, which has multiple beam road
lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which shall be
lighted whenever the upper most distribution of light from the headlamps is in
use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. The indicator shall be so designed and
located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare to the
driver of the vehicle so equipped.
   (D)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in § 73.02, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at safe distance in advance
of the vehicle, subject to the requirements and limitations hereinafter set
forth.
   (E)   Whenever, a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, the driver shall use a distribution light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam, specified in
division (C)(2) above shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times, regardless
of road contour and loading.
   (F)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing, the
driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under KRS 189.340(6), KRS
189.370(1), KRS 189.375 and KRS 189.560(3), other than the uppermost
distribution of light specified in division (G)(3) below.
   (G)   Headlights arranged to provide a single distribution of light not
supplemented by auxiliary driving lights shall be permitted on motor vehicles
manufactured and sold prior to May 30, 1939, in lieu of multiple beam road
lighting equipment, if the single distribution of light complies with the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The headlight shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high intensity portion of the light shall, at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the light from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above
the level on which the vehicle stands, at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
      (2)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at
a distance of at least 200 feet.
      (3)   Whenever the operator of a motor vehicle approaches an oncoming
vehicle within 500 feet, he or she shall use a distribution of light or
composite beam so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of the oncoming driver. In no case shall the high intensity portion which is
projected to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the
vehicle be aimed higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a
distance of 25 feet ahead, and in no case higher than a level of 42 inches
above the level upon which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (H)   Flashing lights are prohibited on all motor vehicles except as a means
for indicating a right or left turn or for the purpose of warning the operators
of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring the
exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing.
   (I)   Except as provided in any regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 189.287,
bicycles need have only one light in front which will reveal clearly
substantial objects at least 50 feet ahead.
   (J)   Headlamps required under this section shall only emit white light.
Halogen headlamps may have a slight yellow or amber tint. Nonhalogen headlamps
may emit a slight blue tint, if the headlamps were installed by the vehicle
manufacturer as original equipment in the motor vehicle, motorcycle, or moped
or the headlamps meet the requirements of division (K) of this section.
   (K)   A motor vehicle, motorcycle, or moped shall only be equipped with
headlamps that meet United States Department of Transportation regulations.
   (L)   A motor vehicle, motorcycle, or moped shall not be retrofitted with a
headlamp that appears to emit a solid color of light other than white.
   (M)   A motor vehicle, motorcycle, or moped shall not be retrofitted with a
headlamp cover or film that changes the light emitted from the headlamp to a
color other than white.
   (N)   Except as provided in division (J) of this section, except as provided
in division (C)(2) of this section, and except for vehicles exempted under the
provisions of KRS 189.910 to 189.950, when operating on a highway or upon the
right-of-way of a highway, any:
      (1)   Visible front lights on a motor vehicle or any light that is
affixed to the front of a motorcycle or moped, shall only be white or amber,
unless installed as original equipment by the manufacturer; and
      (2)   Visible rear lights on a motor vehicle shall only be white, amber,
or red, unless installed as original equipment by the manufacturer.
   (O)   Any violation of this section for the illumination of a solid blue
light or solid blue lights shall be deemed to be a violation of division (C) of
this section.
(KRS 189.040) (1980 Code, § 560.1-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 REAR, SIDE AND CLEARANCE LIGHTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in any regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 189.287,
all vehicles shall display at the rear one red light visible when lighted for
at least 500 feet. A red reflector meeting the requirements may be used in lieu
of a red light.
   (B)   Every motor bus used for the transportation of persons for hire shall
be equipped with at least one red light with the word “Stop” on which it can be
seen for 150 feet when illuminated. This division (B) shall not apply to school
buses or church buses.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motor truck or semitrailer truck on any
highway, unless it is equipped with a yellow or red light that automatically
indicates the application of brakes and is visible from the rear a distance of
not less than 200 feet.
   (D)   No person shall operate on any highway a motor truck or semitrailer
truck having a width of any part in excess of 84 inches, unless it carries at
least two clearance light to indicate the outside left limit of the motor truck
or semitrailer truck, one light colored white or green, to be attached to and
visible from the front of the motor truck or semitrailer truck, and one light
colored red, to be attached to and be visible from the rear, in each case a
distance of not less than 500 feet.
   (E)   When in operation on any highway slow-moving or motorless vehicles,
except bicycles and electric low-speed scooters, shall have at least one lamp
on the left side of the vehicle from the front or rear, showing white and of
sufficient power to reveal clearly the outline of the left side of the vehicle
and in such a manner that the outline may be observed clearly by approaching
vehicles from a distance of at least 100 feet.
(KRS 189.050) (1980 Code, § 560.1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN TOW AND PROJECTIONS.
   (A)   Each vehicle towed by a tow line shall display the lights required on
vehicles of the class to which it belongs.
   (B)   Each vehicle being hauled by another and connected to it in a manner
that will keep them uniformly spaced shall carry at least one light on the left
side in such a manner as to show a green light to the front and a red light to
the rear visible at least 500 feet away.
   (C)   When any part of a load projects more than five feet beyond a vehicle
a red flag by day and a red light during the period provided in §
73.02 must be placed upon the extremity of the projection.
(KRS 189.060) (1980 Code, § 560.1-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 BRAKE LIGHTS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle required by law to be licensed upon a
highway unless it is equipped with a mechanical signal device which would
indicate an intention to stop or suddenly decrease speed by illuminating at
least one red light on the rear of the vehicle.
(KRS 189.055) (1980 Code, § 560.1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 HORNS AND OTHER SOUND DEVICES.
   Except as provided in any regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 189.287 every
motor vehicle and bicycle, when in use on a highway shall be equipped with a
horn or other device capable of making an abrupt sound sufficiently loud to be
heard under all ordinary traffic conditions. Every person operating an
automobile or bicycle shall sound the horn or sound device whenever necessary
as a warning of the approach of such vehicle to pedestrians, or other vehicles,
but shall not sound the horn or sound device unnecessarily. A bell may be used
on a bicycle.
(KRS 189.080) (1980 Code, § 560.1-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 BRAKES.
   (A)   No owner shall knowingly operate or permit to be operated on a highway
a motor vehicle upon which the breaks are defective.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes, adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the vehicle. There shall be two separate means of applying the
brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes on at least
two wheels. If the two separate means are connected in any way, they shall be
so constructed that failure of one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brake on at least two wheels.
   (C)   (1)   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles shall be adequate to stop the vehicle when traveling 20 mph within a
distance of 30 feet when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free
from loose material where the grade does not exceed 1%.
      (2)   Under the conditions described in division (C)(1) above, the hand
brake shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet and
the hand brake shall be adequate to hold the vehicle stationary on any grade
upon which it is operated.
      (3)   Under the conditions described in division (C)(1) above, the
service brakes upon a motor vehicle equipped with two wheel brakes only shall
be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet and the hand brake
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this section shall apply whether
or not the vehicles are loaded to the maximum capacity permitted by law.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted so as to operate equally practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall operate any semitrailer on a highway unless it is
equipped with efficient brakes that may be operated’ by the operator of the
truck or tractor to which the semitrailer is attached.
(KRS 189.090) (1980 Code, § 560.1-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 WINDOWS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; DISPLAY OF AMERICAN FLAG; WINDSHIELD
WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
non-transparent material upon the front windshield; sidewings, side or rear
windows of the vehicle, other than a paper required to be displayed by law.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall prevent the display of a
representation of the American Flag on the rear window of any motor vehicle,
including any vehicle owned by a local or state government, provided that such
representation does not exceed a size of five inches by eight inches and is
placed in a lower corner of the rear window.
   (C)   The windshield of every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be so constructed as to be controlled by the operator of the vehicle.
(KRS 189.110) (1980 Code, § 560.1-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct
the operators view to the rear, and every commercial motor vehicle or more than
one-half ton capacity shall be equipped with a mirror so located and adjusted
as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least
200 feet to the near of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall, by himself or herself or through his or her agent or
servant, operate a motor vehicle upon the highways without the equipment
required by division (A) above. Each day of operation without the equipment
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   No person shall sell, barter or otherwise dispose of any motor vehicle
described in division (A) above, unless it is equipped with a mirror as
provided in that division (A) above.
(KRS 189.130) (1980 Code, § 560.1-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 MUFFLERS; NOISE REGULATION.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle with an internal combustion, steam or air motor
shall be equipped with a suitable’ and efficient muffler. No person while on a
highway shall operate a motor vehicle with the muffler cut out or removed. No
cut out shall be so arranged or connected as to permit its operation or control
of the driver of any motor vehicle while in position for driving.
   (B)   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle or an
off-highway vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by the muffler
originally installed on the vehicle. The original muffler shall comply with all
of the noise requirements of KRS Chapter 224 and regulations promulgated
pursuant thereto. No person shall operate a motor vehicle with an exhaust
system so modified.
(KRS 189.140) (1980 Code, § 560.1-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 ESCAPING CONTENTS.
   No vehicle shall be operated upon any highway unless it is so constructed as
to prevent its contents from escaping.
(KRS 189.150) (1980 Code, § 560.1-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.13 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES.
   No person shall drive, move over, operate or bring upon any street any
vehicle or implement with spiked or uneven metal treads.
(1980 Code, § 560.1-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
Cross-reference:
   Limits and restrictions on Kenneth Utley Drive and Ditmore Ford Road, §
70.05
SCHEDULE I: ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Make one-way south Railroad Street on the east side of the railroad
tracks going north from Cherry to Madison.
   (B)   Make one-way South Railroad Street on the west side of the railroad
tracks going south from Madison to Cherry.
(1980 Code, § 620.1)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Reserved parking for handicapped persons
SCHEDULE I: RESERVED PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (A)   There shall be immediately created three restricted parking places
reserved for the use of handicapped motorists.
   (B)   On each of these, restricted parking places shall be placed on the
north, south, east and west sides of the Public Square next to the crosswalk.
   (C)   Each reserved parking place shall be designated by special marking on
the road surface and an appropriate sign placed next to said parking place on
the sidewalk.
   (D)   Parking in these restricted areas shall be restricted to:
      (1)   Automobiles bearing special handicapped license plates;
      (2)   Automobiles loading or unloading persons who require a device to
assist them in moving about, i.e., wheelchair; and
      (3)   (a)   Automobiles loading or unloading person who have been
professionally diagnosed as having impaired ambulatory ability.
         (b)   Said motor vehicles will still be subject to normal parking
violations and penalties.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above
shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than $100 for each violation.
   (F)   The Police Department of the city is authorized to have towed away
from said restricted parking areas any automobile found in violation herein at
the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 540.2, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 2019-020, passed 9-9-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
92.   CEMETERY PROVISIONS; REGULATIONS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   RESERVED
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Enclosure of swimming pools
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ENCLOSURE OF SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool,
which contains 24 inches (610 mm) or more of water in depth at any point, shall
erect and maintain thereon an adequate enclosure either surrounding the
property or pool area, sufficient to make such body of water inaccessible to
small children. Such enclosure, including gates therein, shall be not less than
four feet (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground. All gates shall be self-
closing and self-latching with latches placed four feet (1,219 mm) above the
underlying ground and otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small
children.
   (B)   A natural barrier, hedge, pool cover or other protective device
approved by the Mayor or his or her delegate shall be an acceptable enclosure,
so long as the degree of protection afforded by the substituted devices or
structures is not less than the protection afforded by the enclosure, gate and
latch described herein.
   (C)   City residence shall be given 60 days from the publication of this
section to bring the swimming pool into conformance with this section.
(Ord. 720.0-7-89, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
90.01 will be punishable for a fine not less than $200 or more than $500.
(Ord. 720.0-7-89, passed 7-24-1989)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Powers of County Animal Control
   
91.03   Adoption and mandatory spay/neuter
   
91.04   Licensing and registration of dog(s) and other animals
   
91.05   Rabies vaccination
   
91.06   Humane treatment of animals
   
91.07   Animal to be under control
   
91.08   Humane societies; standards and licensing
   
91.09   Commercial animal establishments
   
91.10   License revocation
   
91.11   Livestock
   
91.12   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any animal left more than 24 hours without a person checking on
the condition of the animal(s) and providing food and water. Any animal left on
private property without the owner’s consent or deserted or dumped on public
properties or roadways.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. A dog or cat (as the context herein may require) that has
been spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The department of the county which is designated by the
Fiscal Court to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to operate the
Animal Shelter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Control who is qualified to perform duties under the laws and ordinances of the
commonwealth, and the city and county. An ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall be a law
enforcement officer for the purpose of Animal Control only.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated and approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court and/or the City Commission for the purpose of impounding and
caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
   CITY. All public and private areas within the jurisdiction of the city.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit or any entity, person or persons engaged in the business of
breeding, buying or selling at retail or wholesale, any species of animal for
profit.
   DAY. For the purpose of this chapter, a 24-hour period shall constitute a
DAY.
   DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL. The person appointed by the Judge Executive and
approved by the Fiscal Court to be the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals as are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. A normally undomesticated animal, whether or not native to
the region including, but not limited to, lions, monkeys, giraffes, bears,
tigers and wolves (or any hybrid thereof).
   FARM. Any privately owned or leased enclosed, unified tract of property
consisting of greater than five acres shall be considered a FARM for all
purposes under this chapter.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of Animal Control or any
authorized representative thereof.
   KENNEL. Any establishment where dogs are kept for the purpose of breeding,
sale, show or sporting purposes, and which is so constructed that dogs cannot
stray there from.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, emus, ostriches, horses or any other
animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, ratite or equine species.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring or sheltering one or more
animals.
   PERSON. All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies or other entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PIT BULL DOG. Any dog who exhibits those distinguishing characteristics
which substantially conform to the standards established by the American Kennel
Club for American Staffordshire Terrier, or Staffordshire Bull Terriers, or
substantially conform to the standards established by the United Kennel Club
for American Pit Bull Terriers, including any mixed breed of dog which contains
as an element of its breeding the breed of Staffordshire Bull Terrier, American
Staffordshire Terrier or American Pit Bull Terrier.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal(s) which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions; or
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner.
   PROPER QUARANTINE. Confinement to a secure enclosure which shall not permit
the animal to come in contact with another animal or person, except the owner
or care giver, for a period of ten days.
   QUALIFIED PERSON. Any person granted a permit by the State Department of
Human Resources or other agency authorized by the commonwealth to vaccinate his
or her own animal against rabies.
   REASONABLE GROOMING. To maintain an animal’s coat to prevent conditions
which inhibit normal walking or eliminating body waste, or which is medically
harmful to the animal.
   RESTRAINT. Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control the
movement of the animal and/or secured by a leash or chain. An animal shall be
deemed to be RESTRAINED if it remains on the premises of its owner or if it is
accompanied by a responsible person and is under that person’s control.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal that is off the property of the owner,
custodian, possessor or harborer and is not restrained. Except that a hound or
other hunting dog which has been released from restraint for hunting purposes
shall be deemed to be under reasonable control of its owner or handler which
engages in or returns from hunting, and if the hunting dog becomes temporarily
lost from a pack or wanders from actual control or sight of its owner or
handler, it shall not be deemed to be a violation.
   STRAY. Any animal running at large.
   VETERINARIAN. One licensed and qualified to treat diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals due to a known propensity to endanger life by an unprovoked
assault or bite which results in serious bodily harm.
      (2)   Any animal which when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places.
      (3)   The following are deemed a vicious animal: Pit Bull, Rotweiller,
Wolf-Hybrid and mixed breed thereof.
      (4)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals.
      (5)   Any animal which bites multiple times or to the extent of causing
severe injury and assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic
animals.
      (6)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals.
      (7)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (8)   An animal shall not be deemed VICIOUS solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces any person assaulting its owner
unless by a duly sworn office in the line of duty; or any person or animal who
has tormented or abused it;
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense or any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person unless the attack is justified
and by a duly sworn officer in the line of duty; or
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal.
   UNALTERED ANIMAL. A cat or dog (as the context herein may require) that has
not been spayed or neutered.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not domesticated, not ordinarily tame or which is by
nature an animal that lives apart from human beings.
   WOLF-HYBRID. Any domesticated dog that has in its known genetic history and/
or formal pedigree crossbreeding with the wolf species to include, but not
limited to, animals referred to as WOLF-HYBRIDS or wolf-mix breeds or the breed
known as Tundra Shepherd.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 91.02 POWERS OF COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Director and all officers of Animal Control shall have the powers
of a peace officer for the purpose of enforcing animal control laws or
ordinances in the city and county, if they otherwise qualify as a peace officer
under the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   All officers of Animal Control shall comply with KRS 61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for Animal Control to make an inspection in
order to perform any duty or enforce any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable state statutes, they are hereby empowered to enter property at a
reasonable time and inspect the premises. Animal Control shall have the power
only if the consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given, a
search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, non-consensual search is required.
   (D)   All animals of any age running at large, as defined in this chapter,
and found in the city, may be picked up by Animal Control and impounded in the
Animal Shelter. Furthermore, animals which are inhumanely treated, in
accordance with §
92.06 may be picked up by Animal Control and impounded in the animal shelter.
All animals of any age which have bitten or scratched a human being and which
cannot be properly quarantined or found not properly quarantined may be picked
up by Animal Control and impounded in the Animal Shelter for any applicable
quarantine period. A law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer may
order any animal which has bitten or scratched a human being to be quarantined
at the Animal Shelter if the officer has reason to believe such animal is
vicious or may pose a threat to the safety of the community. In the event an
animal is impounded for a quarantine period, the owner shall be responsible for
a reasonable fee for board, administration and medical attention during the
impoundment.
   (E)   Any animal required to be licensed, but found unlicensed, or any
animal whose owner is unknown, shall be impounded for a minimum period of five
days unless its owner earlier claims it. If the animal is not claimed by its
owner within five days of impoundment, the animal may then be offered for
adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the Director of Animal
Control. Any person claiming or reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section
shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration and medical attention for
the animal during impoundment and obtain proper licensing for such animal, if
applicable, from Animal Control. Animal Control shall make reasonable efforts
to locate and inform the owner of any animal that said animal has been
impounded.
   (F)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known, is impounded
in the Animal Shelter, Animal Control shall notify the owner by phone or
personally, within three business days of impoundment. The animal shall be held
a minimum of eight days from the date of impoundment before the animal may be
adopted or euthanized at the discretion of the Director of Animal Control.
   (G)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within five days of the
receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner is
known which is not reclaimed by its owner within five days of receipt of the
notice of impoundment may be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the
discretion of the Director of Animal Control. Any person claiming or reclaiming
an animal pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for boarding,
administration and medical attention for such animal during impoundment.
   (H)   An Animal Control Officer may choose to issue a misdemeanor notice in
lieu of a uniform citation. The misdemeanor notice will stipulate the violation
(s) observed, associated fee and compliance date. The misdemeanor notice shall
allow up to but not exceed seven days to correct the violation. Should the
violation not be corrected within the allotted time, then the notice shall
serve as a uniform citation and the violating party shall report to County
District Court at the designated court date and time. If the violation is
serious in nature, the Animal Control Officer may issue a uniform citation. All
associated fees shall be paid to the County Animal Shelter.
   (I)   Any animal observed by a law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer to be in immediate danger may be removed from such situation by the
quickest and most reasonable means available.
   (J)   In the event that any law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer witnesses a vicious animal, as defined, the animal may be impounded and
the owner cited for violation of §
91.07. If the owner is cited and the animal impounded, the animal shall remain
in the custody of the Animal Shelter pending the decision by District Court,
unless ownership is voluntarily relinquished to Animal Control.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to interfere with,
hinder, harass or abuse any officer or individual authorized to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Any and all fees shall be set annually by the Fiscal Court, including,
but not limited to, animal related licenses, adoption, boarding, administration
and violation fees.
   (M)   While any licensed animal, or animal whose owner is known, is
impounded in the Animal Shelter preceding and during a court action in regards
to the animal, the owner shall not visit the Animal Shelter unless it is agreed
upon by the owner, Animal Control Officers and the Judge Executive. During the
visiting of an animal, the owner is to visit the animal at the outside parts of
the pens and shall not try to open the pen doors. If an owner of an animal
tries to tamper with the locks on the pens or open the pens by any means,
necessary action shall be taken. If an owner tries to visit with his or her
animal and it is not agreed upon with the Animal Control Officers and the Judge
Executive, the owner will be charged with Criminal Trespassing pursuant to KRS
511.070.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 840.2-01-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ADOPTION AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from the Animal Shelter, an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal(s). The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner’s ability to care
for the animal.
   (B)   Animal Control and the Animal Shelter are under no obligation to sell
or transfer possession of any animal in their custody.
   (C)   All dogs adopted from the Animal Shelter or a licensed humane society
must be surgically altered to prevent breeding. The surgical alteration must
occur within 30 days after obtaining the dog. If the animal is a puppy, it must
be surgically altered within 30 days after reaching five months of age. For the
purpose of this section, OBTAINED does not include any animal reclaimed by its
owner.
   (D)   Every owner of a vicious dog in the city shall submit with its initial
registration written proof from a veterinarian that the animal has been spayed
or neutered, or a written statement from the veterinarian why the animal cannot
or should not be spayed or neutered.
   (E)   An owner of a vicious dog must produce evidence that he or she has the
ability to respond in damages up to and including the amount of $10,000 for
bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damage to property
that may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal.
Proof of financial responsibility may be in the form of certificate of
insurance, or in the form of a surety bond conditioned upon the payment of such
damages. If such insurance or surety bond is changed, altered or terminated
after registration of the vicious dog, the owner of such animal shall provide
evidence to the County Director of Animal Control of insurance or surety bond
complying with the terms of this provision within 30 days after said insurance
or surety bond is changed, altered or terminated.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a vicious dog in the city to
fail to comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this chapter.
A vicious dog found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to
immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply with this
chapter will result in the automatic revocation of the license of such animal.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF DOG(S) AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of all dogs or those who harbor or maintain dogs in the city
shall license and register their dog(s) with Animal Control, in accordance with
regulations established by Fiscal Court.
   (B)   License fees may be changed by the Fiscal Court by an ordinance or
resolution.
   (C)   Upon payment, the owner shall be issued a certificate of registration
and the license tag(s).
      (1)   Dog license tags must be attached to a collar and worn by the dog
at all times.
      (2)   A kennel license/certificate shall be posted in a prominent place.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   All animals are required by KRS 258 to be vaccinated for rabies, and
revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the immunization period as
certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any dog reclaimed or adopted from the Animal Shelter must have a valid
rabies vaccination. The purchase or issuance of a rabies voucher through the
Animal Shelter shall constitute temporary compliance with this section until
the expiration date of said voucher.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon an animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking or otherwise abuse any
animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Control from humanely euthanizing
any animal.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any animal
without providing food, water, adequate shelter and/or protection from the
elements, adequate space, reasonable grooming, ventilation, shade from the sun,
proper sanitation, care and medical attention.
   (D)   Any animal, which is chained, tied or otherwise restrained, shall be
provided no less than ten feet of chain, rope and the like, with a swivel
attached to prevent entanglement. Any animal restrained in such a manner that
the animal’s chain, rope or the like allows the animal to leave its owner or
keeper’s property shall be deemed running at large; provided, however, that
regardless of any other provision in this chapter to the contrary, a vicious
animal, as defined in this chapter, shall not be permitted to be kept in the
manner provided in this section, and shall only be allowed to be kept in
accordance with §
91.07.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal in an automobile
without adequate ventilation in the summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No
person shall enclose any animal in the trunk of an automobile. An Animal
Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall rescue any animal confined in
such a manner.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe or attend any dog fight, cock fight, bull fight or other combat
between animals or between animals and humans.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit or
other animal for the purpose of violating any provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show shall be
permitted in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the
use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (I)   No person(s) shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall likely be eaten by an animal, provided that
it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his or her property, common
rat poison, mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (J)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall immediately report the incident to Animal Control or any law
enforcement officer.
   (K)   No person(s) shall give away any live animal as a prize or for
inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition, or as an inducement
to enter into business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except it shall not be unlawful to give away small fish,
not to exceed four inches, as a prize.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person to crop a dog’s ears or tail,
except a licensed veterinarian.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, resident, tenant, occupant, or
persons having control or management of any public or private land within the
city to permit such to be in violation of any provision of the International
Property Maintenance Code as adopted herein, to permit a public nuisance,
health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon, or to permit such to
contribute to the material devaluation of surrounding real property due to
violations of the property maintenance code. A public nuisance shall include,
but is not limited to, the hoarding of pet animals. The “hoarding of pet
animals” shall include, but not be limited to the keeping of more pet animals
than can be properly maintained in a healthy condition without presenting a
health or safety hazard to the owners or others and without constituting a
nuisance to the occupants or neighboring properties, characterized by failure
to provide proper food, water, shelter, veterinary care and sanitation to the
animals and resulting in squalid living conditions for the animals and the
keeper and by complaints from neighbors including, but not limited to,
mistreated or neglected animals, stench from the property and rodent and insect
infestations.
   (N)   Any animal removed by the Animal Control Officer pursuant to §
91.02 shall be retained by the Animal Control Officer pending resolution of any
and all charges against the owner of the animal resulting in court action being
taken by the Animal Control Officer and Fiscal Court against the owner of the
animal.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 840.2-01-2013, passed 2-11-2013)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ANIMAL TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him or her to run at large. When livestock are running at large.
Animal Control or the law enforcement officer shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner as soon as possible. If reasonable possible and feasible, the
owner of the livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and
impoundment of the livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess a vicious animal that has not
been properly registered with the Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   The owner of a vicious dog shall:
      (1)   When a vicious dog is indoors, secure all means of egress so that
the dog may not exit;
      (2)   No person shall permit a vicious dog to go outside of its kennel,
pen or the owner’s residence unless such animal is securely restrained with a
leash or lead no longer than six feet in length and the leash or lead is
physically controlled by a person 18 years of age or older who is in physical
control of the leash or lead. Such animals may not be leashed or tethered to
inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the like. In addition,
all such animals on a leash or lead outside of the animal’s kennel, pen or the
owner’s residence must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent
the animal from biting persons or other animals.
      (3)   All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled, as
provided in division (C)(2) above. Such pen, kennel or structure must have
secure sides and a secure top attached to its sides. A fenced in yard by itself
is insufficient to meet this standard, unless approved, in writing, by the
Animal Control Officer. All structures used to confine such animals must be
locked with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the
structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen, or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground to a
depth of at least two feet, unless approved, in writing, by the Animal Control
Officer. All structures erected to house such animals must comply with all
zoning and building regulations, and all such structures must be adequately
lighted, ventilated and be of appropriate size to allow the animal confined
therein to move around, and must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The
house or shelter for said animal shall be totally enclosed within the
confinement structure. When being transported, the animal must be muzzled or
caged.
      (4)   All owners of vicious dogs shall allow Animal Control Officers and
enforcement agents the freedom to inspect the area as necessary to assure that
the health and safety needs of the animals and public are being met.
      (5)   Every owner of a vicious dog (which includes pit bull dogs and
wolf-hybrids) in the city shall annually register the animal with the Animal
Control Officer and pay a $50 registration fee. This registration shall state
the name, address and telephone number of the person possessing the animal, the
address where the animal is harbored, if different from the possessor’s
address, completely identifying the animal, including genus and species, his or
her common name, gender, color and other distinguishing physical
characteristics, including size and weight. An owner of a vicious dog shall
also submit two color photographs showing the color and approximate size of the
animal with the registration and obtain from the county a vicious dog tag. In
the case of dogs or other animals required by law to be vaccinated for rabies,
proof of rabies vaccination shall also be provided. Registration shall be
completed for all animals that are located or kept within territorial limits of
the city for a period exceeding 24 hours. The registration period shall run
from July 1 to June 30 of the following year.
   (D)   Vicious dogs shall not be permitted to remain within the city’s
territorial limits, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The animal is properly registered in the county and proof of
payment of $50 registration fee is maintained by the owner, having such proof
available upon request by the Animal Control Officers, city officers and/or
enforcement agents;
      (2)   The animal is at all times kept or maintained in a safe manner and
that it is at all times confined securely so that the keeping of such animal
will not constitute a danger to human life or personal property;
      (3)   Adequate safeguards are made to prevent unauthorized access to such
animal;
      (4)   The health or well being of the animal is not in any way endangered
by the manner of keeping or confinement;
      (5)   Keeping of such animal does not constitute a public nuisance and
will not harm the surrounding neighborhood or disturb the peace and quiet of
this surrounding neighborhood;
      (6)   Keeping of such animal will not create or cause offensive odors or
constitute a danger to public health; and
      (7)   The quarters in which such animal is kept or confined is adequately
lighted and ventilated and are so constructed that it may be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (E)   The breeding of vicious dogs within the boundaries of the city is
strictly prohibited and enforcement agents may impound such animals when they
are pregnant or impound any litter these animals may produce.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is in season
(in heat, estrus) shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a
manner that such female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog except for
planned breeding.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 HUMANE SOCIETIES; STANDARDS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All humane societies in the city shall be governed by the same
standards as commercial animal establishments as set forth in any applicable
provision of the state statutes, and shall be subject to any ordinance
pertaining to commercial animal establishments.
   (B)   Humane societies shall maintain records on each animal accepted or
housed, noting the name and address of the previous owner or person turning in
the animal.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definition. In addition to the definitions provided in §
91.01, the following definition shall apply to the provisions of this section,
unless the context clearly indicated or required a different meaning.
      OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any
entity owning or operating a commercial animal establishment.
   (B)   Licensing provisions.
      (1)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and maintain a
valid commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a commercial
animal establishment within the city.
      (2)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
County Judge Executive Office or Director of Animal Control.
      (3)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year, effective July 1 through June 30 of each year. License fees
for commercial animal establishments shall be established or changed by
resolution of the Fiscal Court.
      (4)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed
annually.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal, which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of animals.
      (2)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space
for each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lay and turn around without touching the walls and ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or other animals.
      (3)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows.
         (a)   Cages or enclosure containing dogs, of any age, shall be cleaned
with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including holidays), or more
if conditions require additional cleaning or disinfecting to keep animals out
of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes shall be cleaned daily (including
holidays), and the litter box changed as needed.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (c)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals shall be cleaned
with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more if conditions
require additional cleaning.
      (4)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and water for each animal as follows.
         (a)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays.
         (b)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food.
         (c)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times.
         (d)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
      (5)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a licensed veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
      (6)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal.
      (7)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide a general
cleanliness of its establishment, and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
   (D)   Inspections. The Director of Animal Control or any Animal Control
Officer shall be permitted and empowered to make an inspection of any
commercial animal establishment within the city, and shall further be permitted
to take photographs of commercial animal establishments during the inspection.
The inspection shall take place at the verbal request of the Director of Animal
Control or any Animal Control Officer during regular business hours of the
commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The Director of Animal Control may revoke any license issued by and through
this or any other animal control ordinance. Grounds for such revocation
include, but are not limited to, conviction pursuant to any violation of this
chapter or conviction pursuant to any related state or federal law. Failure to
adhere to the standards set forth in this chapter or failure to permit the
Department of Animal Control to inspect any establishment, business or person
regulated by this chapter during regular business hours shall allow the
Director of Animal Control to revoke the license. Any license revocation notice
shall be in writing, specify the number of days for animal removal (if
required), not to exceed seven days, and shall state the grounds therefore. Any
person who received such license revocation notice issued pursuant to this
section may appeal such notice to the Fiscal Court within ten days following
the receipt of such notice. Any such appeal shall be in writing, shall state
the grounds therefor, and shall be signed by the person bringing the appeal or
their authorized representative. Failure to file a timely appeal to a license
revocation notice shall result in license revocation. A hearing for an appeal
shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the notice of appeal before the
Fiscal Court, or a committee established by the Fiscal Court, which shall be
the sole arbiter of the appeal.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 91.11 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Swine prohibited within corporate limits. It shall be unlawful to keep
swine within the corporate limits of the city at any time during the year.
   (B)   Poultry prohibited within corporate limits. Except in agricultural
zoning districts or properties defined as a farm by this chapter, or in a
properly zoned area for mass production for human consumption, it shall be
unlawful to keep poultry within the corporate limits of the city at any time
during any year; provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a
property owner from keeping up to ten chickens (specifically excluding
roosters) per year so long as said chickens are kept in pens or enclosures and
not permitted to run at large. In addition, any poultry kept in the corporate
limits of the city pursuant to this chapter shall be maintained in such a
manner as to eliminate any foul odor being emitted upon an adjoining property
at any time during any year.
   (C)   Livestock prohibited within corporate limits. Except in agricultural
zoning districts or properties defined as a farm by this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to keep livestock of any kind, including, but not limited to, lamas,
alpacas, bison, horses, goats, sheep and cattle, within the corporate limits of
the city at any time during any year. This section shall not apply to livestock
participating in a scheduled parade so long as the livestock is not kept in the
city beyond the time span established for the parade.
   (D)   Rabbits limited within corporate limits. Except in agricultural zoning
districts or properties defined as a farm under this chapter, it shall be
unlawful:
      (1)   To keep undomesticated rabbits or hares within the corporate city
limits at any time during any year;
      (2)   To keep more than one unaltered domesticated rabbit or hare as a
pet within the corporate city limits at any time during any year; or
      (3)   To keep domesticated rabbits or hares for sale or consumption
within the corporate city limits at any time during any year. Domesticated
rabbits or hares maintained as pets must be maintained in such a manner as to
eliminate any foul odor being emitted upon property located within the
corporate city limits at any time during any year.
   (E)   Livestock running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to suffer or permit any cow, calf, horse, mare, colt, mule, sheep, goat
or other such stock owned by such person, or under his or her control, to run
at large within the city.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Exotic animals. No person shall maintain, harbor or keep an exotic
animal or hybrids of exotic animals within the city limits.
   (B)   Removal of animal excreta required.
      (1)   The custodian of every animal shall remove any excreta deposited by
his or her animal(s) within the city limits on public walks, streets,
recreation areas or private property belonging to another, excluding the
private property owned by the animal owner.
      (2)   Upon private property owned by the owner or custodian of the
animal, the custodian of every animal shall remove excreta deposited by his or
her animal(s) no less frequently than weekly.
      (3)   Any excreta not removed in violation of division (B)(1) above is
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (4)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, be guilty of a violation and
shall be fined not more than $50 for each violation.
   (C)   Animal carcasses.
      (1)   The body or part of any animal to be used for human food shall not
be transported through any streets, unless it is covered so as to protect it
from insects, animals, dust and dirt.
      (2)   No person shall permit any dead horse, cow, sheep or other animal
carcass to remain within the city longer than a reasonable time for removing or
burying the animal carcass.
      (3)   When a dead animal is found in the city, the owner shall promptly
and properly bury the animal when notified to do so by an Animal Control
Officer or enforcement agent. Where the owner is unknown or neglects or
refuses, an Animal Control Officer or enforcement agent, or their designee,
shall bury the animal.
   (D)   Barking dogs considered a nuisance. No owner or custodian of a dog
shall permit the dog to create excessive noise, including barking, such that it
becomes a nuisance, with the exception of a licensed veterinarian at the
location of his or her veterinary facility.
   (E)   Service animals for persons with disabilities. Nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit any person from having any type of duly trained and/or certified
animal as a service animal. For purposes of this chapter, SERVICE ANIMAL shall
mean an animal specifically trained and/or certified to help/assist persons
with disabilities.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation,
unless the context clearly states otherwise.
   (A)   The penalty for a violation of §
91.02 shall be a fine not less than $10, not-more than $100 for each
occurrence. Each occurrence shall be deemed to be a separate offense, which may
be charged and penalized hereunder.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with mandatory spay/neuter requirements
of §
91.03 shall:
      (1)   For the first offense either show the court or hearing authority
proof from a licensed veterinarian that the surgical procedure has been
performed or be ordered by the court to surrender the animal to Animal Control
without a refund of adoption fees, and be fined a sum not less than $10 nor
more than $100; and
      (2)   For the second offense, immediately surrender the animal to Animal
Control without a refund of adoption fees, and be fined not less than $50, nor
more than $250.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the licensing requirements of §
91.04 or the vaccination requirements of §
91.05 shall on the first offense be fined not less than $10, nor more than
$100; on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50, nor
more than $250.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.06 relating to the humane treatment of animals shall be fined a sum not to
exceed $500, or sentenced up to 12 months in the county jail, or both.
   (E)   Any person violating §
91.07(A) (animals to be under control) shall on the first offense be fined not
less than $25, nor more than $100; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $250.
   (F)   Upon conviction under §
91.07 (other than §
91.07(A) which is addressed above) of this chapter relating to the possession
of a vicious animal, the penalty shall be a fine of not less than $100, nor
more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county jail, or both. In addition, the
court may order one of the following:
      (1)   That the following regulations be followed as a condition of the
owner retaining ownership of the animal.
         (a)   The vicious animal shall be neutered, microchip implanted for
identification purposes and registered with Animal Control.
         (b)   The vicious animal shall be confined in an enclosure constructed
of an uncovered fence or structure of at least seven feet in height with anti-
climbers or a covered structure of sufficient height to allow an animal to
stand erect without touching the top or cover. All such enclosure shall be
designed to prevent the entry of small children and shall be suitable to
confine the vicious animal. Such enclosures shall be securely closed and
locked, and shall be designed to prevent the animal from, digging out or
otherwise escaping from the enclosure.
         (c)   The enclosure shall display a warning sign of the vicious
animal, and shall be visible from the public roadway or public access if
applicable.
         (d)   The vicious animal shall not be permitted outside of the
dwelling of its owner or outside of the enclosure unless it is necessary to
obtain veterinary care or under the direction of Animal Control. If the vicious
animal must be allowed outside the permitted areas, it shall be under the
direct control and supervision of its owner or keeper, and shall be muzzled and
restrained with a lead or leash not to exceed three feet in length, or placed
in a secure animal carrier.
         (e)   The owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall immediately notify
Animal Control if the animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked an animal or
human being, or is deceased.
      (2)   In the alternative to division (F)(1) above, the court may order
that the animal be immediately surrendered to Animal Control to be euthanized.
   (G)   Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense under §
91.07 (other than §
91.07(A)) of this chapter relating to the possession of a vicious animal, the
penalty shall be a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $500, or up to one
year in the county jail, or both. If the violation involves the same animal,
the court shall order the animal immediately surrendered to Animal Control to
be euthanized.
   (H)   Any humane society which fails to comply with the requirements of the
minimum standards as set forth in KRS Chapter 258 shall be fined $100 for the
first offense. In addition to the fine, if minimum standards are not met within
30 days, the license shall be revoked.
   (I)   Any commercial animal establishment or kennel violating the minimum
standards of KRS Chapter 258 or the provisions of this chapter, as applicable,
shall on the first offense be fined not less than $50, nor more than $250; on a
second or subsequent offense, be fined not less than $500, nor more than $1,000
per offense.
   (J)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.11 shall, upon conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, be guilty of
a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each violation.
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.12(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $250, nor more than $500.
   (L)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined
not more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 840.2-10-2-2011, passed 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERY PROVISIONS; REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Preservation of Old Franklin City Cemetery as historical site
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Cemetery prohibitions
   
92.04   Cemetery regulations relating to maintenance of trees, flowers and
shrubs
   
92.05   Purchase of cemetery lots
   
92.06   Transfer of lots
   
92.07   Prohibited items
   
92.08   Defacing or damaging cemetery
   
92.09   Rates and charges
   
92.10   Monuments
   
92.11   Rights and responsibilities of cemetery management
   
92.12   Interment procedures
   
92.13   Disinterment procedures
   
92.14   Appraisal of cemetery lots
   
92.15   Perpetual Care Fund
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PRESERVATION OF OLD FRANKLIN CITY CEMETERY AS HISTORICAL SITE.
   (A)   The Old Franklin City Cemetery, located near the existing water tower
on East Cedar Street, and more specifically described in the property
description appendix attached to Ordinance 620.2-11-91, passed November 11,
1991, is hereby declared a historical cemetery site from the effective date of
this section. No building or structure shall be allowed to be erected on the
cemetery site, and the property shall be properly maintained in its current
state in recognition of its significance as a historical site. At such time as
the existing water tower and tank become obsolete, the structure shall not be
replaced by a similar tower.
   (B)   The County Historical Society shall be allowed to place and maintain a
memorial marker at the site of the old cemetery, to be dedicated to those
persons buried at the site.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   These rules and regulations are designed for the protection of owners of
interment rights as a group. They are intended, not as restraining, but rather
as preventing the inconsiderate from taking unfair advantage of others. The
adoption of these rules and regulations will help protect and preserve the
lasting beauty and tranquility of the cemeteries. Any issues not specifically
covered in these rules and regulations must be approved by the Cemetery Sexton.
These regulations apply to all interment rights whether issued prior to or
subsequent to the purchase of interment rights.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.03 CEMETERY PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall remove, damage or destroy any flowers, evergreens or other
things from any lots of the cemetery, not being the owners thereof, or take up
sod or haul anything into the cemetery, or dig graves therein without
permission. Any shrub, tree, flower or other article planted upon cemetery
property without prior approval of the Cemetery Sexton shall be forthwith
removed by the Cemetery Sexton. Any shrub not properly maintained or which
causes improper maintenance of the surrounding land will, after adequate notice
to abate the violation, be removed by the Cemetery Sexton.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 CEMETERY REGULATIONS RELATING TO MAINTENANCE OF TREES, FLOWERS AND
SHRUBS.
   (A)   No shrub, tree, flower or combination thereof shall be planted or
transplanted within the boundaries of Greenlawn, Shady Rest or any other city
cemetery without the prior written approval of the Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   Between March 15 and November 15 of any year, no person shall plant
flowers or set flowers in a vase or other receptacle, except in those
specifically prepared vases placed on cemetery markers throughout the cemetery;
however, flowers may be placed upon the cemetery grounds in any manner
whatsoever during the following periods:
      (1)   Good Friday through the Tuesday following Easter; and
      (2)   From one day before through two days following Memorial Day,
Mother’s Day and Father’s Day.
   (C)   When artificial flowers are left over a period of time and they become
faded or deteriorated, the Cemetery Sexton retains the right to have any faded
or deteriorated artificial flowers removed from the grave site.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   The lots in the cemetery shall be sold for such prices as the City
Commission may determine from time to time.
   (B)   The purchaser of the lot shall pay the price thereof to the City
Clerk, and a deed therefor, signed and acknowledged by the Mayor and the
Cemetery Sexton, shall be recorded by the Clerk in a record book kept by the
City Clerk for that purpose.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.06 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   (A)   Deeds for cemetery lots may be transferred to a new owner by a deed of
transfer available in the office of the City Clerk or the office of the
Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   The deed must be signed by the seller and signature notarized.
   (C)   The Cemetery Sexton shall check the availably of the lots to be
transferred and approve the transfer.
   (D)   The fee for the transfer shall be $35.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.07 PROHIBITED ITEMS.
   The following items are prohibited in any location within the cemetery
unless specifically approved by the Cemetery Sexton:
   (A)   Shepherd hooks or any other hanging devices that are made to hang
baskets, flowers, potted plants or other plantings are prohibited;
   (B)   Glass, ceramic or breakable items are prohibited; and
   (C)   Metal, PVC or wood pipes or stakes designed to drive into the ground
are prohibited. Any such items currently in the ground will be removed as of
January 1, 2008.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 DEFACING OR DAMAGING CEMETERY.
   No person shall break down any fence or part thereof, deface any tombstone
or grave, or injure any other thing within the cemetery.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The following rates and charges are adopted for the Greenlawn Cemetery:
$400   For a single grave
$100   For perpetual care per grave
$450   For opening and closing a grave on weekdays
$550   For opening and closing a grave on weekends or city-recognized holidays
$100   For opening and closing a cremation on weekdays
$200   For opening and closing a cremation on weekends or city-recognized
       holidays
$100   For opening and closing a baby grave on weekdays
$200   For opening and closing a baby grave on weekends or city-recognized
       holidays
$1,000 For disinterment of an adult vault or casket
$250   For disinterment of a baby vault/casket or a cremation.
 
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.10 MONUMENTS.
   All monuments, markers, tombstones, cornerstones, tablets or ornaments shall
be erected under the supervision of the Cemetery Sexton. The location for
erecting any of the items listed above must be marked by the Cemetery Sexton
before erection begins. Size limit(s) on monuments will be based on the size of
lot(s) owned. The size limits shall be determined at the sole discretion of the
Cemetery Sexton, or his or her designee, on a case-by-case basis. The Cemetery
Sexton must be notified at least three working days before installation in the
form of a Monument Installation Request Form. Flags marking the location will
be removed in ten working days if item is not installed within this ten-day
time frame. Thereafter, a new Monument Installation Request Form must be
submitted prior to installing the item. In case of violation of this section,
the Cemetery Sexton shall remove, reset, rectify or change such monument,
marker, tombstone, cornerstone or ornament, and the owner of the lot or the
company and/or person that erected the item shall pay all costs associated with
rectifying, removing, resetting or changing same. There is a $10 fee for
marking the monument location.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.11 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CEMETERY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   CEMETERY MANAGEMENT shall mean the City Commission, or its duly hired/
appointed designee, the Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   Further, the City Commission shall hire or retain a person or entity
to open and close all graves within the cemeteries.
   (C)   The rights and responsibilities of cemetery management shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Cemetery management reserves the right to compel all persons in the
cemetery to obey all rules and regulations.
      (2)   Cemetery management shall take reasonable precautions to protect
the property rights of owners within the cemeteries from loss or damage, but
disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from causes beyond its
reasonable control. Loss or damage beyond reasonable control includes, but is
not limited to:
         (a)   Damage caused by the elements (acts of God);
         (b)   Damage caused by vandals or malicious mischief makers;
         (c)   Damage caused by explosions;
         (d)   Damage caused by military or civil authority;
         (e)   Losses by theft (thieves); and/or
         (f)   Damage caused by normal cemetery operations and use of
equipment.
      (3)   Cemetery management shall take proper action for any damage
occurring due to negligence on the part of any cemetery personnel.
      (4)   Cemetery management shall have the right to correct any errors made
during interment, disinterment, transfer, conveyance or sale of grave lots.
Errors may be corrected by, but not limited to:
         (a)   Substituting other interment rights of equal value and similar
location as near as possible;
         (b)   The disinterment/re-interment of remains to the correct/right
burial lot (with proper disinterment/re-interment permit); or
         (c)   Issuing a new corrected deed to the owner upon retrieval, and
voidance of the incorrect deed.
      (5)   If any memorial, inscription or structure whatsoever is found to be
offensive, it shall be the duty of cemetery management to initiate any action
necessary for the removal, change or otherwise correct the offensive object or
inscription.
      (6)   The management reserves the right to cross over and/or place
equipment upon any properties within the cemeteries as deemed necessary to
accomplish all duties associated with services provided.
      (7)   Cemetery management reserves the right to temporarily remove any
memorial if deemed necessary to gain access to work areas. Any memorial moved
shall be placed back in its original position as quickly as reasonably
possible.
      (8)   Cemetery management reserves the right to prune, cut-back or remove
any tree, shrub or herbage that is or becomes detrimental to adjacent lots and
roadways, or is prohibiting access and preparation of grave sites. Cemetery
management shall use every available means to avoid permanent damage or
destruction to any tree, shrub or herbage, but disclaims all liability or
responsibility for the replacement and/or cost of any plants destroyed due to
necessary and/or normal work procedures.
      (9)   Cemetery management reserves the right to remove any dead tree,
shrub or herbage in order to protect and preserve the beauty and appearance of
the cemetery.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.12 INTERMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There must be an Authorization for Interment Form completed prior to
any interment.
   (B)   All service charges are due and payable prior to any interment or
disinterment, except where prior arrangements have been made.
   (C)   Cemetery lots or single graves are sold for the sole purpose of right
of burial for the use of the purchaser and purchaser’s designee/family.
Relatives and heirs may be buried in a grave lot if they present a notarized
statement, signed by the purchaser or the purchaser’s designee, heirs or
assigns, attached to the Authorization for Interment Form.
   (D)   The burial of two bodies in the same grave shall not be permitted
except when both bodies are in the same casket. The fee for opening and closing
the grave remains the same.
   (E)   If a grave is purchased for the purpose of interment of cremations,
three cremations are permitted per lot site, provided there are no vault
burials in the grave.
   (F)   A limit of one cremation interment is permitted over a vault burial
grave.
   (G)   Cemetery personnel or their designees shall conduct all opening and
closing procedures.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.13 DISINTERMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any disinterment shall be handled in conjunction with any and all
laws, ordinances or regulations pertaining to such operations.
   (B)   Any disinterment shall be performed by cemetery personnel under the
direction of the Cemetery Sexton or his or her designee.
   (C)   Disinterment fees are the responsibility of the disinterment
applicant.
   (D)   Any additional costs incurred in the way of contract work, funeral
home services, vault and/or transportation shall be the responsibility of the
person(s) making application for disinterment, and no cost shall be paid by the
cemetery.
   (E)   Any application for disinterment requires a 30-day notice to cemetery
management, except in the case of a court order.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.14 APPRAISAL OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   The City Commission shall appraise the lots which remain unsold in the
cemetery, and may reappraise and/or set different values for those that remain
unsold, from time to time, as may be necessary.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.15 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter is intended to authorize the use of the
“Perpetual Care Fund” except as specifically authorized in this subchapter. The
Perpetual Care Fund is designed for the permanent maintenance of the Greenlawn/
Shady Rest Cemetery and/or any and all other city cemeteries after the sale of
all lots presently owned by the cemetery. The City Commission or its designee
shall have custody of the perpetual care account. No disbursement from the
corpus of the Perpetual Care Fund shall ever be made by the City Commission, or
by any other entity. The City Commission shall be authorized to expend from the
interest income of the Perpetual Care Fund only at such time as the Perpetual
Care Fund has accumulated sufficient sums so that the earned interest income is
sufficient to meet the budgetary requirements of the Greenlawn/Shady Rest
Cemetery. Until such time, the interest income shall be reinvested in the
Perpetual Care Fund.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for
each offense. Any person guilty and/or convicted of causing damages shall be
responsible for the costs associated with the repair for or replacement of the
items damaged.
(Ord. 620.2-11-2007, passed 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Exemption
   
93.08   Administration
   
93.09   Education and conciliation
   
93.10   Enforcement
   
93.11   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
93.12   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.13   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
§ 93.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City Commission to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
93.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwelling, except as exempted by division (B);
   (B)   Nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall apply only
with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided further,
that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor
is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary
agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the
sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any one time;
Provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall
be exempted from the application of this title only if such house is sold or
rented: without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities or the
sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or of
such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson
or person; and without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposed of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03, and except as exempted by §
93.03(B) and §
93.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped
status, or an intention to make any such precedence, limitation or
discrimination; and
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in face so
available.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a persons applying thereof for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such loan
or other financial assistance or the purposed of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained
in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception
contained in §
93.03(B).
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, familial statues or handicapped status.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin; nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provided
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Mayor Officer of the City Commission.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
the State Human Rights Commission or to a designated employee of the city,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigation,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
Mayor shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his
hearing examiners to others hearing examiners or to the State Human Rights
Commission, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this order, the Mayor shall commence such
educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this
chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will by irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor or his or her designated city
employee. Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and
be in such form, as the Mayor requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same both to the Kentucky Civil Rights
Commission and to the person or persons who allegedly committed or was about to
commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The Mayor will request
assistance from the Kentucky Civil Rights Commission in resolving this
complaint either through informal endeavors or through procedures,
conciliation, agreement and/or enforcement per KRS 344.200 through 344.290. The
Mayor shall act as a facilitator and will assist (when requested and/or where
appropriate) the Kentucky Civil Rights Commission in resolving the complaint.
Nothing said or done in the course of informal endeavors may be made public or
used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the
written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the Mayor who shall
make public any information in violation of this provision shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed with the State
Human Rights Commission within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory
housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the
facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to
the complaint against him or her and with the leave of the State Human Rights
Commission, which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to
do so, may amend his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers
shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the State Human
Rights Commission, the State Human Rights Commission has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The State Human Rights Commission will assist in
this filing.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation the State Human Rights Commission shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine,
record and copy such materials and take and report the testimony or statements
of such person as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the
investigation per KRS 344.200 through 344.290; provided, however. That the
State Human Rights Commission first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The State Human
Rights Commission may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to of the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, any may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
   (B)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the State Human Rights Commission shall be fined nor more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the State Human Rights Commission, shall make or cause to be made
any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record or other
document submitted to the State Human Rights Commission pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsity any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $ 1,000 or
imprisoned nor more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 93.12 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03, 93.04, 93.05 or 93.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiation for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or [...missing text...]
(Ord. 7, passed 4-9-2001)
CHAPTER 94: RESERVED
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions and Regulations
   
95.01   Soliciting funds or accepting donations
   
95.02   Use by water system
   
95.03   Removal of shrubs and overhanging branches
   
95.04   Street address numbers
   
95.05   Sports and/or athletic games
General Provisions and Regulations
   
95.20   Streets used in highway system
   
95.21   Obstructions in streets
   
95.22   Building materials in streets
   
95.23   Sale of merchandise upon streets
   
95.24   Sale of merchandise from a motor vehicle or other temporary stand or
facility
   
95.25   Display of merchandise
   
95.26   Refuse on streets
   
95.27   Material falling from vehicles
   
95.28   Weeds
   
95.29   Cleaning sidewalks
   
95.30   Removal of snow and sleet
   
95.31   Sale of medicines
   
95.32   Religious assembly
   
95.33   Depositing rubbish or refuse of any kind upon the city streets
   
95.34   School grounds
   
95.35   Roller skating
   
95.36   Inuring streets
Disturbance of Surfaces of Roads and Restoration of City Roads
   
95.50   Definitions
   
95.51   Unlawful practices
   
95.52   Application for permit
   
95.53   Administration; enforcement
   
95.54   Approved methods of surface restoration and open trench pipe
installation
 
   
95.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 95.01 SOLICITING FUNDS OR ACCEPTING DONATIONS.
   No person or organization shall solicit funds or accept donations on or over
any public street, road or alley within the city.
(Ord. 440.1, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 USE BY WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The municipal water system is hereby authorized to use the property,
streets, alleys, rights- of-way and easements belonging to the city for the
purpose of laying water and sewer lines and for all other purposes in
furtherance of conducting the business of the municipal water system.
   (B)   This granting of use of the city’s property carries with it the
restriction that the municipal water system must adhere to all existing
ordinances as they relate to the crossing of rights-of-way.
(Ord. 150.32, passed 10-26-1981) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 REMOVAL OF SHRUBS AND OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   It shall henceforth be unlawful for owners of property which abuts
city roads, streets and alleys, and other public rights of way to allow bushes,
weeds, shrubs, and overhanging branches or limbs growing on their property to
encroach upon said public rights- of-way.
   (B)   Every owner and manager of lands bordering on the public rights-of-way
within the city shall clear away and carry away from alongside the roads,
streets and alleys, and other public rights-of- way all bushes, weeds, shrubs
and overhanging branches of trees and other obstructions, and keep any limbs or
branches from hanging down into the public roadway at a minimum height of 15
feet.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a report that any such obstruction exists along a
public right-of-way, the Code of Enforcement Officer shall immediately notify
the property owner in writing to remove said obstructions. The property owner
shall thence have 14 days from receipt of said notice within which to comply
with the request.
(Ord. 570.1, passed 9-26-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall henceforth be required that all persons owning property
within the city post their street address number on the front of their
commercial or residential building, on the front side of each building, as
close to the front entrance as possible, in numbers clearly visible, and at
least three inches in height. The numbers should be posted in such a fashion as
to be clearly visible from the street, and not obstructed by trees, bushes,
signs or similar objects.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a report that any property owner does not have the
street address properly posted, the Code Enforcement Officer shall immediately
notify the property owner in writing to comply with the terms and provisions of
this section. The property owner shall thence have 14 days from receipt of said
notice within which to comply with the request.
(Ord. 300.1-6-95, passed 6-12-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 SPORTS AND/OR ATHLETIC GAMES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any obstruction
across or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the city
without the consent and written approval of the City Manager.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, OBSTRUCTIONS shall include, but
not be limited to, any house, fence, wall, building, structure of any kind, or
any post, rail, basketball goal or other fixed, portable or temporary object
that may in any way obstruct, either totally or partially, any street, alley,
sidewalk or public right-of-way.
      (2)   This section shall also not prohibit canopies and building
overhangs, provided that such canopies and overhangs are attached to a
principal building and are not freestanding or require an independent support
structure, and comply with the zoning ordinances and regulations of the city.
Retaining walls may be permitted pursuant to this section if, in the opinion of
the City Manager or code enforcement officer, such retaining wall is necessary
to either protect the safety of persons or to preserve private property rights,
provided that the placement or replacement of any retaining wall or structure
is carried out in accordance with the zoning ordinances and regulations of the
city. Nothing in this section shall prevent the reasonable use of the streets,
alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of receiving, shipping or delivering goods
or merchandise or other articles for family use.
   (B)   No person or entity shall engage in play or athletic games on or
abutting public streets or rights-of-way within the city in such manner as to
impede or obstruct vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 620.5.09-2011, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 95.20 STREETS USED IN HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways, by authority of KRS 177.041 to
177.047 inclusive, designates any streets or portions thereof, including
viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state and federal maintained
highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto, and thereby undertakes the
future maintenance repair, construction or reconstruction of such streets,
bridges or viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid statutes, the Mayor
of the city is expressly authorized, instructed and directed to enter into any
and all contracts and agreements with the department of highways necessary to
carry out the purposes and provisions of the statutes.
   (B)   Should the Department of Highways construct or reconstruct any streets
in the city, such work shall be done by the Department as the agent of the
city, as set out in KRS 177.044 (3).
(1980 Code, § 620.3-1)
§ 95.21 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, pavement or sidewalk with
bricks, stone, lime, lumber or other materials or with any equipment or
machinery. The foregoing shall not forbid merchants and other persons from
using the streets or alleys in carrying merchandise and other property into and
from their storerooms or other places of business or residences, if such
streets, alleys, sidewalks or pavements are not unnecessarily obstructed.
   (B)   No crate, bale, box or other obstruction shall be left upon the
pavements or sidewalks for four hours after notice to remove it.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-2) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Section
95.21 shall not apply to persons building or repairing any house or building
who shall not use more than one-half of such street opposite to such building,
for such building materials, leaving free passage along the streets, alleys,
sidewalks and pavements. No person shall leave upon the sidewalk or pavement
any of the building materials above mentioned, but shall keep such sidewalks or
pavements as clean and clear of obstructions as may be possible. Plasterers and
painters shall have the same privileges.
   (B)   Any person building or repairing any building who shall place in any
street, alley, sidewalk or pavement any of the building materials mentioned in
this section shall have same removed within three days after the completion of
such building.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-3) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 SALE OF MERCHANDISE UPON STREETS.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale at retail any goods, wares,
merchandise, meats or other edibles, either cooked or uncooked from any
temporary or permanent stand located upon any of the streets, sidewalks or
other public ways. This section shall not prevent the sale of such articles
enumerated from a peddlers vehicle going from house to house in the city.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-4) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 SALE OF MERCHANDISE FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER TEMPORARY STAND OR
FACILITY.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall engage in the
practice of selling or otherwise distributing any product from any motor
vehicle parked within, or from any temporary stand or facility located within,
that area of the city which lies within one block of the public square, to-wit:
between the south right-of-way line of Madison Street and the north right-of-
way line of Washington Street and between the west right-of-way line of High
Street and east right-of-way line of Water Street.
   (B)   The proscription of this section hereof shall not apply to any
religious, fraternal or civic organization, to any service club, nor to any
educational institution or any club or group affiliated therewith.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-5) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   No person shall place, set or display on any sidewalk, street or public
thoroughfare any merchandise, wares, fruits or vegetables for the purpose of
sale or advertising.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-6) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 REFUSE ON STREETS.
   No person shall throw or cause to be thrown in any street or alley any loose
or waste paper, straw, shavings, ashes, trash, chips, cinders or dirt unless he
shall have the same removed within three hours thereafter.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 MATERIAL FALLING FROM VEHICLES.
   Any person hauling trash, rubbish, garbage, tree limbs or other material
over the streets in any vehicle, who permits any of the contents of such
vehicle to fall out and litter the streets or private premises shall
immediately clear the street or premises of such fallen material.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-8) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28 WEEDS.
   The owner of any lot shall keep it clean of noxious weeds from the outside
of the lot to center of the street or streets on which the lot is located.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-9) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.29 CLEANING SIDEWALKS.
   The person owning or occupying property along any sidewalk or pavement in
the city shall keep such pavement or sidewalk clean and the pavement in good
repair, provided he or she has been notified or has information of the
condition of such pavement or sidewalk.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-10) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.30 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND SLEET.
   No owner, agent or occupant of a lot whereon a building of any kind may
exist or the owner or agent in charge of any vacant lot within the city shall
permit snow or sleet to remain upon the sidewalks abutting the lots for a
longer period of time than 24 hours after the snow or sleet have ceased to
fall.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-11) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 SALE OF MEDICINES.
   No person shall advertise by personal appearance of agent, side show or act,
or display, or sell, any kind of medicine or nostrums on any street, alley,
sidewalk, court house yard or other public place in the city.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-12) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.32 RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY.
   No person or organization shall preach, hold or conduct any religious
service in the court house yard, streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public
places within one block of the public square.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-13) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 DEPOSITING RUBBISH OR REFUSE OF ANY KIND UPON THE CITY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or dispose of leaves,
debris, rubbish or refuse of any kind upon the streets of the city.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-14) (Ord. passed 4-1-1963) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.34 SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall go in or upon the grounds, buildings, athletic fields, parks
or any other property used for or in connection with the public schools or high
schools of the city, except by invitation or permission of the board of
education.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-15) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.35 ROLLER SKATING.
   No person shall roll on roller skates or like contrivance on or over any
public pavement, sidewalk, street or alley.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-16) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.36 INJURING STREETS.
   No person shall damage, deface or destroy any asphalt street by burning
leaves thereon, by driving thereon with tractor or engine with cleats or other
rough surface on its wheels, by pouring oil or gasoline on the surface thereof,
or in any other way.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-17) Penalty, see §
95.99
DISTURBANCE OF SURFACES OF ROADS AND RESTORATION OF CITY ROADS
§ 95.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the state, or any other state, territory or foreign
country or dependency.
   PERSON. Every natural person, copartnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine, the word, as applied to
associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof and as applied to
corporations, the officers and directors.
(Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 95.51 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, cut or dig into or under, or
otherwise tamper with the surface of any city road within the county, both
inside and outside the city limits, without having first obtained a permit to
do so as provided herein and otherwise complying with the terms and conditions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 95.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to disturb, cut or dig into or under, or otherwise
tamper with the surface of any city road within the county, both inside and
outside the city limits, shall first make application in writing to the city,
which application shall be filed at least seven days before the applicant may
be authorized to proceeds Such application shall include a description of the
applicant’s proposed activity as well as a description of the work applicant
intends to perform to restore or protect the surface of the affected city road.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The plans or work applicant intends to perform to protect or
restore the surface of the affected city road must be in compliance with the
Approved Methods of Surface Restoration and, Open Trench Pipe Installation as
adopted by the City Commission, and attached hereto.
      (2)   The applicant must deposit with the city bond in the penal sum of
$5,000, with good surety, or in lieu thereof cash bond of equal amount, such
bond to insure and be conditioned that applicant will protect or restore the
surface of the affected city road in accordance with the Approved Methods of
Surface Restoration and Open Trench Pipe Installation as adopted by the City
Commission.
      (3)   The applicant’s proposed activity must not pose a threat to the
health or safety of other persons.
(Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 95.53 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Superintendent of Public Works is hereby designated as the
Administrative Officer in charge of administering this subchapter. The
Superintendent shall issue permits, make all appropriate inspections, and shall
further receive and file complaints regarding violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 95.54 APPROVED METHODS OF SURFACE RESTORATION AND OPEN TRENCH PIPE
INSTALLATION.
   APPROVED METHODS OF SURFACE RESTORATION AND OPEN TRENCH PIPE INSTALLATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d701645e3b786a41e21a06ffcdaf2a0285c7fe20/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1918.jpg]
 
(Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who fails to perform the duties imposed by §
95.03 shall be fined not less than $20, nor more than $50 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person who fails to perform the duties imposed by §
95.04 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $50 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of §
95.05 shall be given a written notification of the violation that exists and be
given ten calendar days to correct any and all violations cited. If the
violation continues to exist after the expiration of the notification period,
the city may remove the obstructions and may charge the property owner for the
number of hours involved in eliminating the obstructions at a charge per hour
consistent with the amounts charged per hour to remedy code violations of this
type. The city may, at its option, choose not to remove any obstructions and
cause a citation to be issued to the property owner for violating §
95.05, with these charges to be heard in County District Court. Any person or
entity found to be in violation of §
95.05 shall be subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $50 and not more
than $100 per day that the obstruction occurs or continues.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation given notice pursuant to §
95.05 by any official of the city may file an appeal within the ten-day time
period established in this section with the City Manager citing the reason or
reasons that mis section of the code should not be enforced. The City Manager
shall issue a final determination in writing to the person, firm or corporation
filing such an appeal, and the decision of the City Manager shall be final.
   (E)   (1)   Any person who violates the provision of §
95.21(A) shall be subject to said motor vehicle, machinery, materials or
equipment being removed by the city at cost to the violator. It is specifically
understood that equipment as used herein includes motor vehicles.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation or other entity who violates any
provision of §
95.24 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each offense, and each days
failure to abate the violation of this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
95.33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 or more than $50 for each offense.
      (4)   [Reserved]
      (5)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
95.20 through
95.36 for which another penalty if not specifically provided shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $100.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any of the terms of §§
95.51 or
95.52 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500, and each disturbance of, or cutting or
digging into or under, the surface of a city road as described above shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(1980 Code, § 620.3-19) (Ord. 620.3, passed 3-8-1982; Ord. 620.3A-5-90, passed
5-29-1990; Ord. 570.1, passed 9-26-1994; Ord. 300.1-6-95, passed 6-12-1995;
Ord. 2019-009, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 96: PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Duty of permittee
   
96.04   Permit required; exceptions
   
96.05   Application for permit
   
96.06   Indemnification
   
96.07   Standards for issuance of permit
   
96.08   Notice of rejection; approval of application for permit
   
96.09   Appeal procedure
   
96.10   Notice of receipt of application and issuance of permit
   
96.11   Contents of permit
   
96.12   Duties of the permittee; possession
   
96.13   Revocation of permit
   
96.14   Public conduct during parades, permitted special event, or permitted
special event with alcohol
   
96.15   Security plan required
   
96.16   Notices
   
96.17   Sanitation and clean-up
   
96.18   Permit area control
   
96.19   Activities in the permit area
   
96.20   Other permits required
   
96.21   Enforcing office; powers and duties
 
   
96.98   Violation
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Parades/Special Events
Ordinance of the City of Franklin.”
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The authorized officer, employee, representative, or agent of the
sponsor who completes the application and acts as primary contact for the
special event.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the City of Franklin.
   CITY HALL. The Office of City Hall for the city.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display, consisting of persons, animals, floats or
vehicles or a combination thereof, in or upon any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city with an intent of attracting public attention
that interferes with the normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the streets,
parks or other public grounds.
   PARADE PERMIT or SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. A permit required by this chapter.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any activity which occurs upon private or public property
that will or may affect the ordinary use of the public property, public
streets, rights-of-way or sidewalks. SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not
limited to fairs, festivals, foot runs, bicycle runs, ceremonies, shows,
demonstrations, exhibitions, pageants, parades, transient amusement
entertainment, block parties, outdoor temporary gatherings or similar event in
or having a substantial impact on any street, park, or other public place in
the city. Private social gatherings which will not require the use of city
streets other than for lawful parking not included.
   SPECIAL EVENTS WITH ALCOHOL. Any festival, ceremony, show, demonstration,
exhibition, pageant, parade, transient amusement enterprise, outdoor temporary
gathering or similar event which will take place in or around the Courthouse
Square on College Street (between Cedar Street and West Kentucky Avenue), West
Kentucky Avenue (between 31-W aka Main Street and College Street) and/or Cedar
Street (between 31-W aka Main Street and College Street). Other adjacent
streets may be considered for closing, but not for the sale of alcohol, at the
discretion of the City Manager. The street closures shall not include the
adjacent sidewalks and the sidewalks will not be included in the special event
permit. The special event permits with alcohol on streets shall not be
permitted before 5:00 p.m. on any weekday, unless a legal federal and state
holiday. The SPECIAL EVENT WITH ALCOHOL must be organized and sponsored by and
for the benefit of a not for profit organization. Any SPECIAL EVENT WITH
ALCOHOL must have the area where alcohol will be served and consumed enclosed
with security at each point of entry and exit, and the enclosed area must be
restricted to individuals age 21 or over. A SPECIAL EVENT WITH ALCOHOL where
alcohol will be sold by the package and not consumed does not require the area
to be enclosed. All SPECIAL EVENTS WITH ALCOHOL must be in compliance with all
state and city alcohol beverage control laws and regulations.
   SPONSOR. The person, business, corporation, partnership, company,
association, organization, or other entity responsible for the special event to
be held. For special events with alcohol, the SPONSOR may only be an
organization, a business, a corporation, a company or other entity which is
licensed with the Secretary of State of Kentucky as a not for profit entity.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.03 DUTY OF PERMITTEE.
   Compliance with all provisions of this chapter by any individual or
applicant shall not relieve that individual or applicant of complying with any
and all other requirements of local, state, or federal governments law, rules,
guidelines, or regulations.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start any
parade or special event unless a parade or special event permit shall have been
obtained from City Hall. Additionally, no person shall participate in any
special event unless a permit or special event permit with alcohol has been
issued for such special event.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions.
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities.
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions. For
purposes of this section, GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY shall mean the city, county or
other unit of government as well as those entities that derive a substantial
amount of their operational funding from governmental agencies including, but
not limited to Franklin-Simpson Parks, Franklin- Simpson Renaissance, Franklin-
Simpson Arts Council, Franklin-Simpson Schools, Simpson County Tourism, and
Franklin-Simpson Chamber of Commerce.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Time limit and deadline. A person or entity seeking a special event
permit or a special event with alcohol permit shall file an application with
the city manager at least 90 days prior to the date of such event. A completed
application does not constitute approval of the permit. A waiver of application
deadline may be granted upon a showing of good cause at the discretion of the
City Manager; and, if there is sufficient time to process and investigate the
application, and arrange police and other city services for the event.
   (B)   Permit fees. There shall be paid, at the time of filing an application
for a permit, a fee in the amount of $150. The fee is non-refundable unless the
application is denied.
   (C)   Special event permit application (without alcohol). The application
for the special event permit shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking
permission to conduct a special event.
      (2)   If the special event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of
or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization and of the organization’s authorized
representatives and responsible heads of such organizations.
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the event coordinator who will be responsible for its management.
      (4)   The date or dates when the special event is to take place.
      (5)   The area where the special event or route is to take place.
      (6)   The hours when the special event will start and terminate.
      (7)   The expected total attendance for the event, and the estimated
maximum number of people to be assembled at any one time.
      (8)   A security and safety plan.
      (9)   Request for any special facilities or temporary structures. (A fee
may be charged in advance.)
      (10)   A cleanup plan including name(s) of individuals and group(s)
responsible for cleaning during and after the special event.
      (11)   Whether the applicant or sponsoring organization of the proposed
special event proposes to select and authorize participants as provided in §
96.18.
      (12)   A statement as to whether the special event will occupy all or
only a portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public
place proposed to be traversed.
      (13)   The applicant shall file with the application a site plan that
provides a detailed layout of the event showing locations of all stages, tents,
power and water sources, rides, food vendors, retail vendors, alcohol sales,
portable toilets, blocked streets, proposed parking, and fire lane.
      (14)   Such other information as may be required by the City Manager.
   (D)   Special event permit application (with alcohol). The application for
the special event with alcohol permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The sponsor’s (not-for-profit organization) name, address and
telephone number of the headquarters of the organization and of the
organization’s authorized representatives and responsible heads of such
organizations.
      (2)   The name of the individual, corporation or organization that will
be the holder of the state and local issued alcohol beverage control license
for the event.
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the event coordinator who will be responsible for its management.
      (4)   The date or dates when the special event is to take place.
      (5)   If alcohol will be consumed at the special event, then a site plan
of the proposed event, including any area where alcohol will be served and
consumed and indication as to where the controlled entry/exit will be and where
the boundaries of the enclosure will be located, and a description of the
enclosure.
      (6)   If alcohol will be sold by the package and not consumed, then a
site plan of the proposed event, including any area where alcohol may be sold
by the package.
      (7)   If alcohol will be consumed at the special event, then the hours
when the special event will start and terminate and the hours when alcohol will
be served. In no circumstances can alcohol be served or sold after 11:00 p.m.
      (8)   The expected total attendance for the event, and the estimated
maximum number of people to be assembled at any one time.
      (9)   A security and safety plan which will include security necessary
for the alcohol area.
      (10)   Request for any special facilities or temporary structures. (A fee
may be charged in advance.)
      (11)   A cleanup plan including name(s) of individuals and group(s)
responsible for cleaning during and after the special event.
      (12)   Whether the applicant or sponsoring organization of the proposed
special event proposes to select and authorize participants as provided in §
96.18.
      (13)   A copy of all necessary state and local licenses from alcohol
beverage control issued for the event (the licenses can be provided after
conditional approval for the special event with alcohol permit is given). Proof
that all individuals who will be serving alcohol at the event have completed
S.T.A.R. (Server Training in Alcohol Regulations).
      (14)   A statement as to whether the special event will occupy all or
only a portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park of other public
place proposed to be traversed.
      (15)   The applicant shall file with the application a site plan that
provides a detailed layout of the event showing locations of all stages, tents,
power and water sources, rides, food vendors, retail vendors, alcohol sales,
portable toilets, blocked streets, proposed parking, and fire lane.
      (16)   Such other information as may be required by the city manager.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   As a condition to the issuance of any permit under this chapter, the
applicant/sponsor shall agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city,
its officers, employees and agents, against any and all suits, claims or
liabilities for damages or injuries caused by, or arising out of, any special
events under this chapter.
   (B)   The sponsoring organization must provide proof of comprehensive
liability insurance with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence combined
single limit for bodily injury liability and property damage liability,
including premises and operations, at the time of application. Higher limits of
$2,000,000 per occurrence with a $4,000,000 aggregate will be required for high
risk activities, including but not limited to rodeos, carnivals, air races,
automobile races, hot air balloon events or activities that include a potential
hazardous environmental release. Additionally, any special event with alcohol
will also require $1,000,000 of liquor liability insurance. Sponsor shall name
the city as an additional insured on all required insurance.
   (C)   Liability insurance may be waived or set within the above described
limits at the discretion of the City Manager depending on the size of event and
if there are no significant risks involved with the conduct of the special
event.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Manager or his or her designee may issue a special event permit or
special event with alcohol permit based on, but not limited to, the following
considerations:
   (A)   Health, welfare, and safety of the general public.
   (B)   Availability of municipal services (such as police, fire, engineering,
inspection and sanitary services).
   (C)   Traffic flow.
   (D)   Available use of the area by the general public.
   (E)   The permitted special event or special event with alcohol or parade is
not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any product, goods or event,
and is not designated to be held purely for private profit.
   (F)   The location of the permitted special event or permitted special event
with alcohol will not cause undue hardship to adjacent businesses or residents.
   (G)   There are no other events, parades, permitted special events, or
permit special events with alcohol applications that have been or will be
granted for other locations that would reduce police resources, in combination
with the second application, to such an extent that the welfare and safety of
persons and property would be adversely affected.
   (H)   The application contains no incomplete or false information or the
applicant fails to comply with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.08 NOTICE OF REJECTION; APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager shall act upon the application for a special event
permit or special event with alcohol permit within 30 days after the filing
thereof. If the City Manager rejects the application, he or she shall deliver
to the applicant a notice of his or her action, stating his or her reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
   (B)   If the permit is approved by City Hall, a notice of approval shall be
delivered to the applicant.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.09 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   In the event any person’s application for a special event permit or special
event with alcohol permit has been denied by the City Manager, such aggrieved
person shall have the right to appeal the City Manager’s decision to the Board
of City Commissioners. Such appeal shall be made within a period often ten days
following the issuance of the City Manager’s rejection of the application. To
perfect the appeal, the aggrieved person shall provide written notice of appeal
to the City Clerk within the aforesaid ten-day period. The Board of City
Commissioners shall conduct a hearing on such appeal within 30 days following
the receipt of the written notice of appeal.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.10 NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Manager shall forward the application to all appropriate city
departments and such other agencies as deemed necessary and each department or
agency shall have 15 days to review and comment on the application. Immediately
upon the issuance of a parade, special event, or special event with alcohol
permit, the City Clerk shall send a copy thereof to the City Manager, Fire
Chief, Police Chief, Director of the Department of Public Works and such other
agencies as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.11 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade, special event, or special event with alcohol permit shall state
the following information:
   (A)   Name of permittee;
   (B)   Name of event coordinator;
   (C)   The date or dates of the special event;
   (D)   The time of the commencement and termination of the event;
   (E)   The permit area; and
   (F)   Such other information as directed by the City Manager.
   (G)   Each special event with alcohol permit shall state the following:
      (1)   Name of permittee or sponsoring not for profit;
      (2)   Name of event coordinator;
      (3)   The date or dates of the event and date or dates alcohol will be
served;
      (4)   The time of the commencement and termination of the event, and
hours when alcohol will be served. In no circumstances can alcohol be served
after 11:00 p.m.;
      (5)   The event permit area, and the specific location designated to be
permitted for serving alcohol; and
      (6)   Such other information as directed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.12 DUTIES OF THE PERMITTEE; POSSESSION.
   The event coordinator shall have the parade, special event permit or special
event with alcohol permit readily available during the event, and shall comply
with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.13 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be temporary and do not
vest any permanent rights. The City Manager or Chief of Police shall be allowed
to revoke a permit under the terms of this section. Reasons for revocation of a
parade, permitted special event, or permitted special event with alcohol permit
include applications containing incomplete or false information; the applicant
does not comply with all terms and conditions of the permit; the applicant
fails to arrange for or adequately remit all fees, deposits, insurance or bonds
to the city; the applicant fails or is incomplete in any of the requirements of
this chapter; or disaster, public calamity or other emergency exists. In
addition, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief shall have the authority at any
time to revoke or suspend a special event permit or special event with alcohol
permit for an indefinite period of time under exigent circumstances or the
threat thereof which present a reasonable concern for public safety.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.14 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES, PERMITTED SPECIAL EVENT, OR PERMITTED
SPECIAL EVENT WITH ALCOHOL.
   (A)   INTERFERENCE. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade, permitted special event, or permitted special event
with alcohol.
   (B)   DRIVING THROUGH PARADES. No driver of a vehicle (except a police car
or other emergency vehicle) shall drive between the vehicles of persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE. The Chief of Police shall have the authority,
when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a street or public thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade. The Chief shall post signs to such effect, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. No person shall be in violation of this chapter for parking on a
street or public thoroughfare that is unposted.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 SECURITY PLAN REQUIRED.
   The permittee shall cooperate with the city’s Police Department in designing
a security plan for the parade, special event or special event with alcohol
that may involve the use of city police, whether on-duty or off-duty. The
decision to use city police officers, whether on-duty or off-duty, and the
number of such employees and the rank of the police officers provided shall be
within the sole discretion of the Chief of Police based on the appropriateness
of the request and the ability of the Police Department to provide staffing to
fulfill the requested service. Any off-duty use of city police officers in
which the police officer is in his or her police uniform or using city
equipment shall require the approval of an agreement between the city and the
Franklin Police Department and the permittee. The city shall be reimbursed the
established service costs of contracted police officers or on-duty police
officers, at the portion of the established service costs set out below. The
Chief Financial Officer is authorized to determine an established service cost
for each rank of police officer and to modify those established service costs
on an annual basis to account for cost of living increases.
   (A)   Private (for profit) and post secondary education institutions: 100%.
   (B)   Nonprofit organization and schools located in the city: 50%.
   (C)   Certain designated special events are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter and police services shall be continued at no cost to the
sponsoring organization so long as the request for police services and the cost
to the city are not significantly increased. Should any of these designated
special events not occur in any fiscal year or the request for police services
and the cost to the city significantly increase, as determined by the City
Manager, this provision shall cease and that special event shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter. The special events grandfathered by the
provisions of this chapter are: Christmas Parade, Martin Luther King, Jr.
Parade or Walk, Homecoming Parade, Antique Car Show and Cruise-In, Garden Spot
Trot 5K and Walk, and Franklin-Simpson School system sporting events.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.16 NOTICES.
   The permittee shall advertise the special event on at least two occasions,
with one advertisement being in the local newspaper at least two weeks prior to
the special event. The second advertisement may be made by newspaper, radio,
television or other media approved by the City Manager. In addition, the
permittee shall provide event advertisement information to the city, including
an event fliers and description, no less than 14 days prior to the event so
that the city can post the special event on the city’s social media. Permittee
shall also be required to specifically inform and obtain written permission
from private property and business owners who might be inconvenienced during
the event.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 SANITATION AND CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   A parade or special event permit may be issued only after adequate
waste disposal facilities have been identified and obtained by permittee.
   (B)   Permittee will clean the right-of-way or other public property of
rubbish and debris, returning it to its pre-event condition immediately at the
conclusion of the event.
   (C)   The permittee shall be responsible for any damage caused to rights-of-
way, sidewalks, streets, light poles, signs or any other property.
   (D)   The permittee must provide a damage deposit. The damage deposit or
portions thereof may be retained to cover clean-up costs, damage to public
right-of-way or other property, or loss or damage to city equipment. Damages
exceeding the amount of the deposit shall be billed directly to the permittee.
City staff shall check the site after the event and if no damage is found or
clean-up is required, the damage deposit will be refunded. Damage deposits
shall consist of $250 for any event. If a permittee is applying for several
events in a series, one damage deposit may be accepted and retained for
application at all events, providing no damages are found. If damage is
incurred at one of the events in a series, a new $250 damage deposit will need
to be issued for subsequent events.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 PERMIT AREA CONTROL.
   During the term of the permit, the event coordinator shall have the general
control of the activities to be conducted within the permit area, subject,
however, to the ultimate and superior control and jurisdiction of the city.
Such person’s control of such area shall be reasonable with due regard for the
safety and welfare of the participants and the general public. The event
coordinator shall have the authority to select and authorize participants who
are to participate in the event and to establish fees and guidelines regarding
such participation. The event coordinator shall have the right to exclude
unauthorized persons from participating in the event within the permit area.
The event coordinator shall not at any time exclude any person from
participating in any activity by reason of such person’s race, creed, color, or
by reason of such person being a member of a protected class, or otherwise
discriminate against any person in the conduct of the event.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.19 ACTIVITIES IN THE PERMIT AREA.
   The activities which may be conducted in the permit area shall at all times
be a lawful activity. Such activities may include the sale of merchandise,
food, and beverages. Any person engaging in such activity as a permitted
participant of the event shall be required to obtain an occupational license.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.20 OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permittee shall obtain all other permits, approvals or permissions and pay
all fees that may be required from all city and non-city departments prior to
the date of the special event including, but not limited to permit fees and
deposits, occupational license(s) and fees, and alcoholic beverage license(s)
and fees.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 ENFORCING OFFICE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager is hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules
and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. All such rules and regulations
shall be subject to the consent and approval of the City Manager.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 96.98 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
parade or special event without first having obtained a permit as herein
provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade or
special event for which the person knows a permit has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of a duly licensed parade or special event to knowingly fail to
comply with any condition of the permit.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both.
Each day of any violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 440.11-07-2014, passed 6-23-2014; Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-8-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   [RESERVED]
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   [RESERVED]
      
114.   GROSS RECEIPTS LICENSE FEE
      
115.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
116.   PEDDLERS, DOOR-TO-DOOR SELLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
117.   [RESERVED]
      
118.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
119.   STREET VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Title
   
111.002   Purpose
   
111.003   Definitions
   
111.004   Scope
   
111.005   Adoption
License Requirements
   
111.015   City licenses
   
111.016   Consumption of drink on premises; license required; fee
   
111.017   Veteran’s organizations or posts that qualify under Section 501(c)
(19) of the Internal Revenue Code exempted
   
111.018   Distilled spirits and wine license fees
   
111.019   Malt beverage license fees
   
111.020   Certain special licenses defined/described
   
111.021   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
111.022   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
111.023   Refund of fees
   
111.024   Regulatory license fee
   
111.025   Disposition of fees
Office of the City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator
   
111.035   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
111.036   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
111.045   Advertisement
   
111.046   Application fee
   
111.047   Form of application
   
111.048   Other conditions
   
111.049   Form of license
   
111.050   Change of information
   
111.051   Renewal of license
   
111.052   Lost or destroyed license
   
111.053   Revocation or suspension
   
111.054   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license
   
111.055   Transfer or assignment
   
111.056   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
111.057   Review of license; books, records and reports
   
111.058   Dormancy
Hours for Sale and Delivery
   
111.070   Generally
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
111.080   Gambling
   
111.081   Radio receiving apparatus
   
111.082   Security
   
111.083   Lavatory facilities required
   
111.084   Drunkenness
   
111.085   Underage sales
   
111.086   Sign requirements
   
111.087   License to be displayed
   
111.088   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail
   
111.089   Habitual congregating
   
111.090   Definitions
   
111.091   Employment restrictions
   
111.092   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
111.093   Cause for revocation
Minors
   
111.105   Possession by minors prohibited; no person shall aid possession by
minors
Consumption on Premises Prohibited
   
111.115   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited
   
111.116   Exceptions
Enforcement
   
111.140   Generally
Mandatory Responsible Beverage Service Training
   
111.150   Generally
Signs and Advertising
   
111.160   Signs and advertising
Patio and Outdoor Sales
   
111.170   Patio and outdoor sales regulations
   
111.171   Exception to screening requirement for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages in the case of permitted sidewalk cafes in the Downtown
Business District
   
111.172   Conditions for sidewalk café permit
   
111.173   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafes
Location of Premises Restricted; Enforcement
   
111.180   Generally
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance” of
the city.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise or specific definitions are provided herein, shall
have the same meaning as those set out in the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage
Control Statutes and Regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and all
amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.004 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.005 ADOPTION.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws and Regulations of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto are adopted
so far as applicable to this chapter, except as otherwise lawfully provided
herein.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.015 CITY LICENSES.
   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, there is hereby established a city license for each of the state
licenses authorized by the Kentucky Revised Statutes to be issued by cities.
The fee for each city license shall be as set out in the schedule set forth in
§
111.018. In the event the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall hereafter be amended
to authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each of said additional city
licenses shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended. Each of
said licenses shall only be issued as allowed or required by the Kentucky
Revised Statutes. Further, all definitions or regulations relating to said
licenses shall be incorporated herein by reference. If any discrepancy exists
between this or future ordinances and the applicable provisions of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, the applicable provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
shall supersede the provisions of the code of ordinances.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.016 CONSUMPTION OF DRINK ON PREMISES; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE .
   (A)   The City Commission, pursuant to the provisions of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, has previously determined that economic hardship exists
within the city, as is evidenced by its high rate of unemployment, slow rate of
growth, loss due to plant closings, and a significant number of vacancies in
the business districts. The City Commission has further determined that the
licensing authorization contained in division (B) of this section could aid
economic growth. Further, the City Commission adopts this chapter as a
comprehensive, regulatory ordinance covering, inter alia, the licensing and
operation of hotels, motels, inns and restaurants for the sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   In accordance with the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator is authorized to issue any license permitted by
KRS 243.070, and the activity thereby licensed is permitted in accordance with
state law and city law.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013; Ord. 2017-004, passed 2-13-2017; Ord. 2018-018, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 111.017 VETERAN’S ORGANIZATIONS OR POSTS THAT QUALIFY UNDER SECTION 501(C)
(19) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE EXEMPTED.
   (A)   The city recognizes the dedication and service provided by veterans
and the multitude of contributions these organizations have made in the
community. Due to the foregoing, these organizations shall be exempt from the
local licensing requirements and the payment of the licensing and regulatory
licensing fees charged “by the drink” in this chapter as set forth below.
   (B)   Any veteran’s organization or post that is tax-exempt and meets the
requirements of Section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be exempt
from the requirements of this chapter relating to the sale of alcoholic
beverages. Provided, however, that these organizations shall not be exempt from
the requirements of any and all federal and state laws, rules, and regulations
relating to alcoholic beverages. Further, no ancillary business including, but
not limited to restaurants that are open to the general public shall be
exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   This section shall become effective on and after July 1, 2024.
(Ord. 2024-019, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 111.018 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE LICENSE FEES.
   The following distilled spirits and wine licenses as set forth in KRS
243.030 may be issued by the city, the fees for which shall be:
Distiller’s license, per annum                                       $500
Rectifier’s license:
   Class A, per annum                                               $3,000
   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum                             $960
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum            $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                                $800
Quota retail drink license, per annum                                  $800
Special temporary license, per event                                   $150
Nonquota Type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine $2,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota Type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine $800
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota Type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Special temporary alcoholic beverage auction license, per event        $200
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                         $300
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                         $2,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                         $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum            $1,000
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt  $800
beverages), per annum
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt $1,200
beverages), per annum
*Unless other arrangements are approved by the City Commission.
 
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013; Ord. 2017-004, passed 2-13-2017; Ord. 2018-018, passed 12-10- 2018; Ord.
2024-019, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 111.019 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE FEES.
   The following kinds of malt beverage licenses may be issued by the city, the
fees for which shall be:
 
Brewer’s license, per annum                                 $500
Microbrewery license, per annum                               500
Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum              400
Nonquota retail malt beverage package license                 200
Nonquota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum 200
Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum             100
 
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.020 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES DEFINED/DESCRIBED.
   (A)   Special license required for Sunday sales. No retail drink licensee
shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:00 midnight on
Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday unless the licensee shall have obtained a
special license for Sunday sales from the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to regular retail drink
licenses shall apply to the special licenses, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.021 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1 of any
year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year. Any licenses issued
after October 31 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro
rata portion of the remainder of the license period; however, the cost of any
license shall not be less than one-half the amount of the full fee for an
annual license of that type. Provided, however, that all batch renewals, as the
term BATCH is defined in 804 KAR 4:390 (Section 1), shall have an annual term
beginning September 1 and ending August 31 of the following year and shall be
renewed in August.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2017-004, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 111.022 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided in §
111.999.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.023 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth regarding
alcoholic beverages or other cause outside of licensee’s control, then the city
shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license fee for the
period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said business if the
licensee provides sufficient proof to the City ABC Administrator that such
period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee or the result of a
revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or an agent or employee
of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.024 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee on the gross receipts of the sale of alcoholic beverages of each license
issued by the City ABC Administrator. As of the time of adoption of this
chapter, the regulatory license fee shall be 8% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of
gross sales. Thereafter, the City Commission shall adopt at the budget adoption
for each subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory license
fee as shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city
for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expense
related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city fail to
address the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license
fee shall remain at the level at which it was fixed until such time as the City
Commission shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for the estimated cost of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory licensee fee shall accompany the tax return approved for such use by
the City Commission or their designee. The return and payment are due no later
than by the end of the month immediately following each calendar quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is 5% of the tax for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The total
late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the tax; provided, however, that in
no case shall the penalty be less than $25.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.025 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   The City ABC Administrator shall transmit fees upon collection to the City
Finance Department to be deposited into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
OFFICE OF THE CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 111.035 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the office of City
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator.
   (B)   The City Manager shall serve as the City Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator (hereinafter referred to as City ABC Administrator), unless the
City Manager shall appoint someone else to fill the position pursuant to KRS
241.170.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator may from time to time appoint such
additional personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration
of this chapter.
   (D)   The salary for the office of the City ABC Administrator, if any,
together with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the City ABC
Administrator, shall be fixed from time to time by the City Commission.
   (E)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (hereinafter referred to
as ABC Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no
amendment to these regulations proposed by the City ABC Administrator may be
less stringent than the statutes relating to Alcoholic Beverage Control, or
than regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the City ABC Administrator
shall become effective until the City Commission has first appropriately
approved it.
   (F)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an investigator or an
employee of the city under the supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who
would be disqualified to be a member of the ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator shall have all authority as authorized
under KRS Chapters 241 through 244. The City ABC Administrator, and the ABC
Administrator’s investigators, may inspect any premises where alcoholic
beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without
first obtaining a search warrant.
   (H)   Should the City ABC Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds
to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC or other business
organization, has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to
require such person to appear in person at the Police Department for the
purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (I)   The City ABC Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as
such, shall take the oath as prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution and
shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less
than $1,000. The City ABC Administrator may require any employee under the City
ABC Administrator’s supervision to execute a similar bond in such a penal sum
as the City ABC Administrator deems necessary.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.036 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken to
the state ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of
the orders of the City ABC Administrator. The Board shall hear matters at issue
as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the City ABC
Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the City ABC Administrator shall have been
appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding
such appeal or protested application, the City ABC Administrator, upon receipt
of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and take such
action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and
as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal
times shall have been exhausted. A final order of the ABC Board is the order
entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the Board’s order, in
which case the final order is the order entered by the Board upon direction
from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order of said reviewing
court.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE
OF LICENSE
§ 111.045 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
   (A)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership and managers of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC,
as well as the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a
corporation, the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the
principal officers and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and
address of the corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location
of the premises for which the license is sought, and the type of license for
which application is made.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.046 APPLICATION FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing of the
application for a city license. If the license is granted, the application fee
shall be credited against the initial license fee.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.047 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the City
ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Alcohol Beverage Control and the
city, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the Commonwealth of
Kentucky Department of Alcohol Beverage Control and the city, including, but
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If Franklin resident, indicate when residence was established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a
postal or express money order for the amount of the license fee, less the $50
application fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file with the application responses to any additional questions as may be posed
or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Commission may adopt a
statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses and, in
order to determine the extent to which applications may further or impede the
objectives of those guidelines, the Commission may, by resolution or ordinance,
adopt a questionnaire to be submitted to applicants for licenses.
   (E)   The questionnaire may be altered, expanded, supplemented or replaced
by resolution or ordinance of the Commission hereafter. In addition to the
information contained in the application and any city ordered questionnaire,
the City ABC Administrator may require such other information as the
Administrator may in his or her discretion deem desirable, reasonable or
appropriate to the consideration of the application.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.048 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations required or
permitted by law:
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by the City Building Inspector, and
any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of issuing the license, nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any
fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to sell
alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (D)   No person, whether an applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the City
ABC Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any state ABC
Administrator or staff, in any manner in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This section is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
section. This section shall not be interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements
in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order or
revocation or suspension, where the chapter and applicable statutes allow for
such payments in settlement.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.049 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the City
Commission and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.050 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator within ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word change is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information will be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         (h)    Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.051 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of temporary licenses or those licenses
authorized by the Kentucky Revised States to be renewed every two years, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
existing lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not be payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the license.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.052 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.053 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
if the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board or of the
Department of Revenue relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation or taxation of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall
have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of
any federal board, agency or commission, or this chapter now, heretofore, or
hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation or taxation of intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations
of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or
permitted the violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience
of his or her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for
any cause which the City ABC Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound
discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be revoked
or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages or products on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted of
two violations of the terms and provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes or
any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages, or if within such
period, any licensee or any clerk, servant, agent or employee of the license
shall have twice been convicted of any felony or any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of one such
felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter or acts of Congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof; or
      (5)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Commonwealth, setting up,
conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed premises, any gambling game,
device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift enterprise, or handbook or
facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse races; or permitting to be
set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on the licensed premises, any
such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift enterprise, handbook or
facility.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013)
§ 111.054 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be prescribed by the Board of Commissioners of
the city by resolution or ordinance. Such order shall be maintained on file in
the office of the City ABC Administrator and a copy furnished with any notice
of proposed revocation or suspension sent to a licensee. If the Commission
shall fail to adopt such resolution or ordinance, the procedures shall be those
set out in the Kentucky Administrative Procedure Act (KRS Chapter 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police at the request of the City ABC Administrator shall immediately call on
his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and return it to
the City ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal
shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once
suspend all operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a
final order of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on
appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this
license.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.055 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the City
ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.056 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   In the case of quota licenses, before approving an application, the
City ABC Administrator is hereby directed to consider, in addition to the
factors set out in KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, and any other factors the
Administrator determines in his or her discretion to be reasonable and
pertinent to the license application, the following criteria:
      (1)   Ownership. The city places great value on business owner who are
invested in the city community.
      (2)   Economic impact. The city desires businesses which make the most
positive impact on the community, in number of jobs, payroll, property
investment and revenues to the city.
      (3)   Site of business. The city is interested in serving all geographic
areas of the city. Therefore, the city does not wish to cluster all licensed
ABC outlets in one area.
      (4)   Aesthetics. The city is committed to protecting the character and
beauty of our community.
      (5)   Capital. The city values businesses that demonstrate their ability
to financially support and sustain their viability.
      (6)   Public support of licensed business in the area. The city intends
that public sentiment and safety be considered in deciding upon the approval of
retail liquor sales licenses in any area of the city.
   (C)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.057 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identify each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   (1)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon
the licenses premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
      (2)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in
enforcement of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC
Board required by statute shall be furnished to the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.058 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive, and unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) of this section shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall
furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the
fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the
specific reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted there under within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY
§ 111.070 GENERALLY.
   A licensee that is licensed to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages by the drink or by the package shall be permitted to sell or dispense
distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages during the times in which the
licensee is open for business.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-12-2012, passed 12-10-
2012; Ord. 220.500-6-2013, passed 6-24-2013; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-
25-2013; Ord. 2018-018, passed 12-10-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS
AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.080 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on licensed premises.
Dice, slot machines, and/or any device of chance are prohibited and shall not
be kept on such premises unless otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.081 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is intentionally
adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law enforcement
agency in Simpson County or the Kentucky State Police as they are now or may
hereafter be operated. In addition to other penalties provided for the
violation of this section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator,
or his or her designated investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate
any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.082 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises, including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.083 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All licensees shall be required to provide indoor or outdoor lavatory
facilities for their customers where such beverages are consumed on the
premises.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.084 DRUNKENNESS.
   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any person to
become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee sell
alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to be an
habitual drunkard or any person known to the seller or server to have been
convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-month
period. No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently under
the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises. As
used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence of
alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with specific
reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory alcohol
server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.085 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all IDs to ascertain
that every person attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages is at
least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.086 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at least
8" x 11" in 30 point or larger type which states as follows:
Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to $100 if they:
1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.087 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license has
been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the
room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where the traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any
person other than the licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the
license in any respect.
   (B)   All licensed retailers of alcoholic beverages, except holders of
special temporary licenses, shall post in a prominent place easily seen by
patrons a printed sign at least eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in size,
with gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health and Family
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
(KRS 243.895) (Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.088 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAIL.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.089 HABITUAL CONGREGATING.
   (A)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages,
including retail package malt beverage licenses, shall knowingly allow or
permit habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the
licensed premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Congregating. No persons shall congregate for the purposes, under the
circumstances, or in the places prescribed in §§
111.115 and
111.116.
   (D)   Posting of signs. It shall be a defense to any prosecution under §§
111.115 and
111.116 if such licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the division of
police to post and maintain a legible, painted or printed sign in at least two
separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less than three
inches in height, stating that congregating of persons is prohibited and that
violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled spirits, wine
and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses issued for those
purposes.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the general
use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the health, safety and
welfare of the public.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure exists
or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which otherwise
reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of occupancy.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.091 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years;
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years, unless the person is employed:
         (a)   In a bottling house or room of a licensed distiller, winery,
brewer, or rectifier;
         (b)   In an office of a wholesaler or manufacturer that is maintained
in a building separate from the warehouses or factory;
         (c)   At premises licensed only with a nonquota retail malt beverage
package license, and the person employed to sell malt beverages is at least 18
years of age and under the supervision of a person 20 years of age or older; or
         (d)   In any of the following establishments, if the employment is in
a capacity that does not involve the sale or serving of alcoholic beverages:
            1.   A restaurant that derives at least 50% of its food and
alcoholic beverage sales from the sale of food for consumption on the licensed
premises; or
            2.   Any other establishment with alcoholic beverage sales not
exceeding 50% of its gross sales; or
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of the person's employment, has
had any license issued under KRS Chapters 241 to 244 or under any other act or
ordinance relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause.
   (B)   The provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (2) above shall not apply if
the employee's duties do not involve the sale, service, delivery, or traffic in
alcoholic beverages at the licensed premises.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall subject both employer and employee to
penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of
license.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2018-018, passed 12-10-2018)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premise. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello
wrestling or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with
touching for compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or
gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
No licensee shall sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink
special or free drinks on any licensed premise in the city.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.093 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
   Violation of this subchapter shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
MINORS
§ 111.105 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; NO PERSON SHALL AID POSSESSION BY
MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under applicable provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, no person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic
beverages or enter onto any licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this prohibition,
“premises” specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed
establishment is situated, including any drive-up window. The prohibition
contained in this division shall not apply to premises where the usual and
customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store,
grocery store, drugstore, or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly allow, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licensees, as set out in §
111.085, shall require proof of age of all persons attempting to purchase or
consume alcoholic beverages on the licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individual’s possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individual’s possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by state law.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED
§ 111.115 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises unless said person or entity shall also have a license conferring the
privilege of consumption on the premises or shall have the NQ-4 license which
permits on premises consumption. Any licensee who intends to permit on premises
consumption shall, prior to permitting on premises, consumption, notify the
City ABC Administrator in writing of this decision. A licensee who does not
permit on premises consumption shall post a prominent notice on the premises
stating that consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, no malt beverage
license or NQ-4 license shall be issued or be allowed to remain valid for any
establishment that sells malt beverages by the drink only.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.116 EXCEPTIONS.
   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not prohibit
sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, or where sampling is permitted for a quota retail
package license or quota retail drink license under the provisions of KRS
244.050, or beer tastings as permitted under Kentucky laws or regulations.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 220.500-11-2013, passed 11-25-
2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.140 GENERALLY.
   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator are authorized to
enforce this chapter for alleged violations.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE
SERVICE TRAINING
§ 111.150 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program. For a responsible beverage service training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed in this chapter.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training in division (A) above shall
complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person first
becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is licensed to
serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to the opening
of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty. Further, each licensee shall
file a copy of all employees’ training documents with the licensee’s quarterly
sales license fee returns.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified in responsible beverage service training from a program approved
by the city not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 111.160 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules and regulations of the city and the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder and/or any
other applicable provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test,” “high proof” or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES
§ 111.170 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only
on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
   (B)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafes, upon application to and authorization from
the City ABC Administrator and approval of the City Commission. The permission
to operate a sidewalk café shall be governed by the provisions of this
subchapter and shall be subject to the regulation of local zoning authorities,
as well as code enforcement and public safety officers.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages
unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the City ABC Administrator.
   (D)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter and by
permission of the City ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning chapter and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter or in other provisions of local ordinance,
statute or regulation.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.171 EXCEPTION TO SCREENING REQUIREMENT FOR OUTDOOR SALES AND SERVICE OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN THE CASE OF PERMITTED SIDEWALK CAFES IN THE DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Licensees in the Downtown Business District may request an exception
from this outdoor screening of patio provision to permit seasonal sidewalk
cafes that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct to the primary and
adjacent licenses premises. In the case of permitted sidewalk cafes, they shall
be deemed part of the licensed premises.
   (B)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this chapter and the provisions of the state ABC code may upon
application to the City ABC Administrator ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as “sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk café permit.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator may issue the permit if he or she finds
that:
      (1)   The applicant is licensed under this chapter and the ABC Code for
the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
      (2)   The applicant is in compliance with all conditions and restrictions
of said license;
      (3)   The applicant has all necessary building and use permits, including
certification of the Zoning Administrator that the sidewalk café is permitted
at the premises location, as well as a lease from the city to use the sidewalk
duly approved by the City Commission; and
      (4)   Also finds that the issuance of the permit would not result in any
significant adverse land use impacts.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.172 CONDITIONS FOR SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions; provided, however, that the City ABC Administrator may without
adverse hearing procedures impose additional reasonable restrictions or
withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk café where necessary in
the judgment of said Administrator to protect the public health, safety or
welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing:
   (A)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
   (B)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs, shall
be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when the
sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the end
of each business day or at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas, tables,
chairs and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area shown on
the approved permit and lease. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café shall
not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not limited to,
trees, light poles, traffic signs, pull boxes or manholes, or any public-
initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of the
public sidewalk at all times.
   (D)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law, take
reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
   (E)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
   (F)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
   (G)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
   (H)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
   (I)   The permit and lease for a sidewalk café may not be assigned or
transferred.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.173 OTHER REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIDEWALK CAFES.
   No sidewalk café permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed
with the City ABC Administrator evidence of insurance insuring the licensee
against liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or
operation of such sidewalk café in an amount to be established by the City
Manager or his or her designee. The city shall be named an additional insured
in the policy providing such insurance, and such policy shall further provide
that it may not be canceled except upon ten days written notice (or more) filed
with the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
LOCATION OF PREMISES RESTRICTED;
ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.180 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Restricted to B-2, B-4 and B-5 Zones. No person or entity shall, or
shall be licensed in the city to, sell, dispense, wholesale and/or retail
alcoholic beverages requiring a retail package license from any premises or
establishment located in any place or area other than within the boundaries and
areas known as and established as General Business Districts (B-2), Highway
Business Districts (B-4), or Interstate Interchange Business Districts (B-5),
under the provisions of the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Regulations.
The boundaries of those areas are shown on the zoning map on file in the
Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Office. Provided, further, that the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages requiring a retail package license shall be a
conditional use of the property, and shall require a conditional use permit
from the Franklin-Simpson County Board of Adjustments. The requirements to
obtain a conditional use permit are contained in the Franklin-Simpson Planning
and Zoning Regulations and/or can be obtained at the Franklin-Simpson Planning
and Zoning Office.
   (B)   Private clubs, present locations, hotels, motels and restaurants are
excepted. The foregoing provisions shall not apply to legitimate private clubs
now in existence, and the present locations of any licensed places or
establishments, nor shall it apply to hotels, motels and restaurants. However,
this provision shall apply in the event any license of any person, firm or
corporation for premises and establishments now located outside the area herein
provided, other than the kinds of business and establishments herein excepted,
shall hereinafter be revoked, surrendered or not renewed. No new license shall
be issued for use at any location or premises not within the boundaries of the
area herein established.
   (C)   Injunction. The provisions of this section may be enforced by
injunction proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Simpson District
Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may assess the
fines and penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per diem
assessments for ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed by
the state change under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this
chapter shall be adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed
by state law. Payment of all fines shall be made to the City ABC Administrator
who shall transmit said payments to the City Finance Department to be deposited
in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall for the first
offense be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200, or imprisoned in the
county jail for not more than six months, or both, and for the second and each
subsequent violation, he or she shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than six months or both.
The penalties provided for in this division (B) shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for
the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 220.500-09-2012, passed 9-10-2012)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Publication of this chapter
   
112.03   Initial review of basic cable rates
   
112.04   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
   
112.05   Cable operator information
   
112.06   Automatic rate adjustments
   
112.07   Enforcement
   
112.08   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels and all
domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.02 PUBLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is hereby found, determined and declared that the facts and
recitals set forth in the preamble of this chapter are true and correct and are
hereby affirmed, and all acts described in said preamble are hereby ratified.
Such facts and recitals, including the terms defined therein, are adopted and
incorporated as part of this chapter.
   (B)   In accordance with KRS 83A.060(7), an emergency is hereby declared to
exist for the reasons described in the preamble of this chapter and the City
Commission hereby suspends the requirement of publication of the ordinance (or
a summary thereof) in order for it to become effective, so that the ordinance
is and shall be effective upon adoption of this chapter; and further, this
chapter, because of said emergency hereby declared, shall be effective upon its
adoption on first reading, without publication, as provided in KRS 83A.060(7),
the Board of City Commissioners having hereby suspended the requirements of
second reading and publication. Summaries of the ordinance shall be published
within ten days of the adoption of this chapter as provided by law.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.03 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Commission is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the City Commission shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the city.
      (2)   If the City Commission takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Commission is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Commission shall, within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its
basic cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke
the following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination;
         (a)   Ninety days if the Commission needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the City Commission has not made a decision within the 90- or
150-day period, the City Commission shall issue a brief written order at the
end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the City Clerk to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made
part of the record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with the
objector’s name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, the City Commission shall review the rates using the benchmark
analysis in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on
the Board of Commissioner’s findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be
established as follows.
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark/those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992, and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator’s per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify an initial basic
cable rate above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. The City Commission will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The City Commission may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator’s September 30, 1992, rate minus 10%, will prescribe the
cable operator’s new rates.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator’s proposed rates, the City Commission shall adopt its decision by
formal resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the Commission shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the Commission shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the City Commission determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
City Commission may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) or
(H) above, as applicable. In addition, the City Commission may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to September
1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Board of Commissioner’s
resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, of if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the City Commission must give
public notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement
once in the newspaper with the greatest circulation in the city.
   (J)   Appeal. The Board of Commissioner’s decision concerning rates for the
basic service tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in
accordance with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.04 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of the
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Commission is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
Commission shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If the City Commission takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the Commission is unable to determine whether the rate increase
is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material before it,
or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City Commission
shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional
periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the Commission needs more time to ensure that the
requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as determined
by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the Commission has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-day
period, the Commission shall issue a brief written order at the end of the
period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all amounts
received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf the
amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the City Clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part of the
record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with the objector’s name and
address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Commission is unable to make a
final determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended
time period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the Commission later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price gap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the City
Commission shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance
with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Board of
Commissioner’s findings, the basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Commission shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings.
      (1)   If a cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing in an attempt
to justify a rate increase above the price cap, the Commission will review the
submission pursuant the FCC standards for cost-of-service review.
      (2)   The Commission may approve a rate increase above the price cap if
the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-service
determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the cable
operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new rate.
   (I)   Decision. The Commission’s decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, of if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the City Clerk to record the objection or may be submitted in
writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The Commission may order refunds of subscribers rate payments with
interest if:
         (a)   The City Commission was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The Commission determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the Commission disapproves
any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Board of Commissioner’s
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The Commission’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.05 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   City may require.
      (1)   In those cases where the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the
Commission may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the City Commission may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Commission may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
division, shall not be considered.
   (C)   City Commission action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
division (B) above, will be acted upon by the City Commission. The City
Commission will grant the request if the cable operator presents by a
preponderance of the evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with
applicable federal regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be
placed in a public file in lieu of the information withheld from public
inspection. If the request does not present a case for nondisclosure and the
Commission denies the request, the Commission shall take one of the following
actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request, except in the unusual instance when the public interest so
requires.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the Commission,
the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the Commission denies the request for confidentiality, the
cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the Board of Commissioner’s decision, and the release of the
information will be stayed pending review.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.06 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service,
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within
30 days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier change or above the actual cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective immediately with the summary of the
ordinance as read at the meeting being specifically approved and adopted for
purposes of first and only reading and for the purpose of publication and
summary form according to law.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or refund
order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each day the
cable operator fails to comply.
(Ord. I-7-94, passed 2-14-1994)
CHAPTER 113: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 114: GROSS RECEIPTS LICENSE FEE
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Occupational license fee; on whom imposed
   
114.003   Annual business license fee
   
114.004   Effective date
   
114.005   License fees not based on net profits
   
114.006   Imposition of license fee; applicability to employees
   
114.007   Exempted money receipts
   
114.008   Certain business activities subject to license fees
   
114.009   License fee for compensation received in property
Specific Businesses
   
114.020   Insurance agents
   
114.021   Railroad train service employees
   
114.022   Motor freight and commercial transportation other than railroads
   
114.023   Federal, state or municipal employees
   
114.024   Real estate sales persons and brokers
   
114.025   Tailors
   
114.026   Nurses
   
114.027   Executives and directors
   
114.028   Domestic servants
   
114.029   Amusement parks
Determining Amount of License Fee
   
114.040   Determination of amount of business within city
   
114.041   Computation of gross receipts
   
114.042   Apportionment
   
114.043   Computation of fees for new businesses
Procedure for Filing Returns; Deductions; Withholding
   
114.055   Employers to furnish lists of employees
   
114.056   Return and payment of tax
   
114.057   Applicability of federal income tax law; business entity to keep
records
   
114.058   Employer to withhold taxes
   
114.059   Employer to report tax withheld; liability of employer for failure to
withhold or pay tax
   
114.060   Personal liability of officers of business entity
   
114.061   Use of tax year and accounting methods required for federal income
tax purposes
   
114.062   When returns to be made; copy of federal income tax return to be
submitted with return
   
114.063   Extensions
   
114.064   Licenses
Administration and Enforcement
   
114.075   Duties of Finance Officer
   
114.076   Regulations on file and open to public
   
114.077   Auditing of returns; payment of additional tax; federal audit
   
114.078   Records to be kept by businesses and employees
   
114.079   Claims for refund or credit
   
114.080   Penalties; confidentiality of information filed with the city
   
114.081   Fees credited to General Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT PARKS. A commercially operated park, other than a publicly owned
park or a fair or carnival which are for a limited duration, having various
devices for entertainment (such as rides) and usually booths for the sale of
food and drink for which a fee or charge is exacted.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS or BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability
company, business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
sole proprietorship, association, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service organization or other legal entity through which business
is conducted; provided, however, this definition does not include the usual
activities of board of trades, chambers of commerce, or trade associations, or
unions; community chest funds or foundations; corporations or other
organizations organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational or civic purposes, or for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated
exclusively for social, literary, educational or fraternal purposes where no
part of the earnings, income or receipts for such units, groups or associations
enures to the private benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   BUSINESS RECEIPTS. The sum total of gross receipts from sales plus gross
credit or charges for work done and performed or services rendered.
   CITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, com- missions or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§ 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning as the definition set forth in KRS
Chapter 227.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, this state or any other state, territory or foreign
country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. Employer as defined in I.R.C. § 3401(d).
   FIDUCIARY. A person who holds in trust, property, monies or properties, to
which another has a beneficial title or interest, or who receives and controls
income for another person.
   FIREWORKS. This term, and all recreational exploding devices such as
firecrackers, sky rockets and the like, shall have the same meaning as the
definition set forth in KRS Chapter 227.
   FISCAL YEAR. Fiscal year as defined in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(24).
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease or
rental of goods, services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid;
      (2)   Returns and allowances; and
      (3)   Alcoholic beverage sales subject to license fees pursuant to Ord.
220.500, and all other ordinances relating to and/or regulating alcoholic
beverages.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2006, that would
otherwise terminate.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee under
this chapter.
   MANUFACTURER. Any individual, co-partner- ship, corporation, partnership or
association which engages in manufacturing or the manufacturing process, which
is defined as follows: material having less commercial value for its intended
use before processing but has appreciable commercial value for its intended use
after processing by labor, assembly and/or machinery.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61, minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Chapter 1, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION OR OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind of
work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of any kind
of position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official or other employee, including any nonresident of the city who is
employed by an employer where the relationship between the individual
performing the services and the person for whom the services are rendered is,
as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and employee,
including also a partner of a firm or an officer of a firm or corporation if
the partner or officer receives a salary for his or her personal services
rendered in the business of that firm or corporation, and shall also include
and mean the holding of any kind of office or position, either by election or
appointment, by a federal, state, county or city officer or employee, where the
services of that official or employee are rendered within the city.
   PAYROLLS. The total wages, salaries and other personal service compensation,
except for severance pay.
   PERSON. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to a partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations shall mean the
officers and directors thereof.
   SALARIES,.WAGES, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER COMPENSATIONS. The total gross amount
of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses and any and all other payments or
other considerations which an employee receives from an employer, except for
severance pay. The amount paid to traveling salespersons or other workers as
allowance or reimbursement for travel or other expenses incurred in the
business of the employer, except to the extent of the excess of such amounts
over expenses actually incurred and accounted for by the employee to his or her
employer are excluded from this definition.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. A city of the first to the fifth class, county, urban-county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy net
profits, gross receipts or occupational license taxes; provided, however, that
the tax district for the purposes of this chapter shall be the city.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS. In the case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenues both within and without a tax district, means gross receipts as
defined above, as apportioned under §
114.042.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS. In the case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenue only in one tax district, means gross receipts as defined above.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In the case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only in one tax district, means net profit as defined above.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In the case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without a tax district, means net profit as defined
above, as apportioned under §
114.042.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income or gross receipts is computed.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 220.7-11-2009, passed 11-23-2009;
Ord. 220.7-5-2011, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 2019-009, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.002 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE; ON WHOM IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all
employees in the city for the privilege of engaging in such occupation, trade,
profession or other activity, which license fee shall be measured by and be
equal to 1% of the gross salaries, wages, commissions and other compensations
earned by such persons for work done or services performed or rendered in the
city.
   (B)   Where such salaries, wages, commissions and other compensations are
earned both within and without the city, the provisions of §
114.042 apply.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.003 ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   There is also hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all
businesses or manufacturers which pursue, conduct or carry on any business
activity located within the city, or elsewhere, and doing business in the city.
The minimum license fee amounts listed herein shall be due and payable by or
before January 31 for every year in which business is conducted in the city
unless a business begins operation after January 1 of a calendar year wherein
the provisions of §
114.043 apply. The license fee so imposed shall be in the following listed
amounts:
   (A)   Manufacturing:
      (1)   Minimum license fee: $100;
      (2)   Each and every manufacturer subject to this license fee shall pay
an annual license fee equal to the total number of employees, including
salaried employees, multiplied by $20. This fee shall be due and payable
quarterly, and the number of employees shall be defined as the weekly average
of total employment for each quarter for which the license fee is payable; and
   (B)   All other businesses, except for businesses that sell “fireworks” or
“consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter 227), with said
businesses that sell fireworks or consumer fireworks being subject to a license
fee as set forth in division (D) below.
      (1)   Minimum license fee: $100.
      (2)   The license fee for all other businesses, except for businesses
engaged in the sale of “fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” as those terms are
defined in KRS Chapter 227), shall be calculated by multiplying the amount of
gross annual receipts/sales up to and including $1,000,000 by .0006. In
addition, businesses with gross annual receipts in excess of $1,000,000 shall
be taxed an additional amount calculated by multiplying .0001 by any amount in
excess of $1,000,000 and less than $10,000,000. Any business with gross annual
receipts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be taxed an additional amount
calculated by multiplying .00005 by any amount in excess of $10,000,000.
   (C)   Part-time businesses, except for businesses engaged in the sale of
“fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter
227). Part-time businesses, except for businesses engaged in the sale of
“fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter
227), provided that they qualify pursuant to the criteria hereinafter set
forth, shall be charged one-half of the minimum business license fee, ($100) or
a total of $50. In order to qualify as a part-time business, an individual must
file a verified application with the city requesting to be designated as a
part-time business customer and the individual should state that he or she
meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The business operates 30 hours or less per week.
      (2)   The business does not have gross annual sales in excess of $50,000.
      (3)   The application shall be granted or denied by the City Manager or
his or her designee within 30 days of receipt of the application.
      (4)   This division affects only the minimum charges for business
licenses and does not relieve any business of the obligation to file a return
under the provisions of §
114.002.
   (D)   Businesses that engage in the sale of “fireworks” or “consumer
fireworks” as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter 227). Any business,
person, firm, partnership or corporation that offers for sale, exposes for
sale, sells at retail, or keeps with intent to sell any “fireworks” or
“consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter 227), shall pay
a license fee of $1,000 per calendar year, prior to the issuance of the
license. As a part of the licensing process and prior to a license being issued
by the tax assessor, the Building Inspector, or his or her designee, shall sign
the license indicating that the location of the business is zoned appropriately
for the conduct of said business. The person, firm, partnership, business or
corporation shall also show valid proof of general liability insurance in an
amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and per accident. The tax
assessor shall sign the license before issuing it indicating that this
insurance requirement has been met. Any license issued by and through this
chapter shall expire 60 days from the issuance of said license.
   (E)   Gross receipts of $4,000 or less. Any business or business entity with
gross receipts of $4,000 or less per tax year shall not be required to purchase
a business license. Provided, however, that any business or business entity
that has gross receipts of less than $4,000 per tax year shall be required to
obtain a business license, at no cost, and file the gross receipts return
substantiated with the appropriate federal tax return/schedule to affirm/prove
the amount of gross receipts collected by the business or business entity.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 220.7-5-2011, passed 5-9-2011; Ord.
2019-009, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The license fee imposed in this chapter shall become and remain effective
after July 1, 2008 as if it does not have an expiration date.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.005 LICENSE FEES NOT BASED ON NET PROFITS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as imposing an annual
license fee based on net profits.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.006 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE; APPLICABILITY TO EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The license fee is imposed on both residents and nonresidents of the
city at the rate of 1% of all compensation earned for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city.
   (B)   The following are subject to the license fee: compensation received by
an individual, whether directly or through an agent and whether in cash or in
property, for services rendered as:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee, or both, of a corporation, including
a corporation of the first or non-profit class, joint stock association or
joint stock company;
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee, as distinguished from a partner or
member, of a partnership, limited partnership or any form of unincorporated
enterprise owned by one or more persons;
      (3)   An agent employee, as distinguished from the proprietor of a
business, trade or profession conducted by an individual owner;
      (4)   An officer, agent or employee, whether elected, appointed, enlisted
or commissioned of a governmental administration, agency, arm, authority,
board, body, branch, bureau, department, division, section or unit of the
state, or any of the political subdivisions thereof, or those of any other
state;
      (5)   An officer, agent or employee, whether elected or appointed, of a
governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit of the United States government
or of a corporation created and owned or controlled by the United States
government, or any of its agencies or those of any foreign company or
dependency; and
      (6)   An officer, agent or employee of any other entity.
   (C)   In the case of individuals whose compensation is earned for services
performed both within and without the city and who receive subject payments as
set forth in the foregoing rules and regulations, the provisions of §
114.042 apply.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.007 EXEMPTED MONEY RECEIPTS.
   The following money receipts are not deemed to be “salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensations” within the meaning of this chapter:
   (A)   Old age or retirement programs. Periodical payments, commonly
recognized as old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from
service after reaching a specified age or after a stated period of employment
are not subject to the license fee;
   (B)   Disability, sickness, accident benefits and unemployment compensation.
Payments made to employees by an employer under a disability, sickness and
accident plan are not subject to the license fee. Unemployment compensation
payments made by the state or any other agency are not subject to the license
fee;
   (C)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable by an employer to the
beneficiary of an employee or to his or her estate, whether payable in a single
lump sum or otherwise, are not subject to the license fee;
   (D)   Benefits arising under the Worker’s Compensation Act. Amounts received
by employees under the Worker’s Compensation Act as compensation for a
disability sustained during the course of employment, together with any amount
of damages received by a suit or agreement on account of the disability, are
not subject to the license fee; and
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 2019-009, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.008 CERTAIN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO LICENSE FEES.
   The following business activities are specifically, but not exclusively,
subject to the license fee:
   (A)   Trusts. Whenever a trust estate is engaged in an enterprise, activity
or business which produces income, that activity or business shall be
considered subject to the license fee;
   (B)   Trading of stocks and securities. Where a person engages in the buying
and selling of stocks, bonds or other types of securities and these
transactions are not isolated and few, but are extended so as to constitute an
activity, this shall constitute a business subject to the license fee;
   (C)   Fiduciaries. Money received by a fiduciary is subject income where a
fiduciary is regularly engaged in a business or profession as a fiduciary; or
is engaged in a business or profession commonly regarded as being incidental or
collateral thereto; for example, an attorney at law, real estate agent, and the
like; or if such commissions or fees represent a substantial portion of the
earnings or income of the fiduciary; or when the administration of the trust
requires a substantial portion of the fiduciary’s available working time;
   (D)   Independent contractors. An independent contractor is a person who,
while performing services for another, is not under the direction and control
of such other person as to the result to be accomplished by the work as to the
details and means by which that result is accomplished, such as authors,
professional persons, seamstresses, laundresses, tailors and registered nurses;
and
   (E)   Real estate. The compensation received from the operation of real
estate by a business or person is subject to the license fee imposed by this
chapter where the operation falls within the classes hereinafter described:
      (1)   Warehouses, shopping centers, apartment hotels and similar
structures. The operation of these types of buildings constitutes a subject
activity;
      (2)   Apartment houses, single dwellings and other rental property. To
the extent that a person owns, controls or rents commercial property or has
three or more units of residential rental property, he or she is engaged in the
real estate business. This does not preclude an inquiry into each particular
case if it is considered necessary;
      (3)   All businesses engaged in the rental of real estate or organized
for that purpose shall be considered to be engaged in a subject activity;
      (4)   When any property falls within the classifications above given, the
manner of its acquisition (purchase, gift, inheritance, fiduciary or as
fiduciary mortgagee in possession and the like) does not affect the
subjectability of the income derived therefrom; and
      (5)   Where the property is located within the city limits, the residence
of the beneficiary is immaterial.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.009 LICENSE FEE FOR COMPENSATION RECEIVED IN PROPERTY.
   Where compensation is received or paid in property, its fair market value at
the time of receipt shall be subject to a license fee or to withholding
(deduction of the fee at the source). Board and lodging and similar items shall
be included in earnings at their fair market value, where such board and
lodging is considered part of the compensation paid; however, the value
accepted for the purpose of the state and federal payroll taxes may be accepted
by the Finance Officer.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 114.020 INSURANCE AGENTS.
   (A)   Individuals engaged in the sale of insurance may be either employees
or independent contractors.
      (1)   Where the individual is subject to the direct control of another as
to the manner of his or her conduct and is paid a fixed fee, he or she is
considered an employee and the amount of the license shall be withheld at the
source.
      (2)   Where the individual is not under the direct control of another and
may conduct the sale as he or she sees fit, receiving his or her payment in the
form of commission from the sale, he or she is considered an independent
contractor, and shall file his or her own return and make payment as an
independent contractor.
   (B)   Commissions subject to license fee.
      (1)   In determining whether the commissions payable by reasons of the
selling of any policy by an agent resulted from work done or services performed
or rendered in the city, the test shall be the residence of the insured at the
time of the issuance of the policy, rather than the actual place of
solicitation, except where the solicitation is in the city and the agent’s
established place of business is within the city, the commission is subject to
the license fee regardless of the residence of the insured.
      (2)   If an agent has an office outside the city as well as an office of
his or her own within the city, the commissions on policies sold to
nonresidents, if handled through the outside office, are not subject to a
license fee, since under such circumstances they are not earnings or profits of
an independent city business.
   (C)   Group insurance commissions. Commissions paid on the sale of contracts
of group insurance are subject if the group is located within the city as a
unit, without regard to the residence of the writing agent.
   (D)   Bonuses and incentive payments subject to license fees. That
proportionate part of all bonuses and incentive payments received by an agent,
which bears the same ratio to the total amount of bonuses and incentive
payments received by him or her as the amount of commissions received by him or
her on policies sold to residents bears to the total amount of commissions
received by him or her on all policies sold, to both residents and
nonresidents, is subject to the license fee.
   (E)   Advances and drawing accounts. There are two main types of advances
and drawing account payments:
      (1)   Those which impose upon the agent a written obligation to repay if
they are not in fact earned.
      (2)   Those which, through offset by commissions as earned, cannot be
recovered at law even though the agent fails to produce enough business to
justify them.
         (a)   The first of these two types of advance and drawing account
payments is in the nature of a loan and accordingly is never subject to a
license fee. All commissions or bonuses applied toward the repayment of these
types of advancements and drawing accounts are subject in accordance with the
rules set forth in this section.
         (b)   The second type of advance and drawing account payment is
subject to compensation when received, to the extent that it exceeds
compensation earned.
   (F)   Collection of license at source. It is the duty of all companies doing
business in the city, or general agents in the cases of agents whose contracts
are with a general agent along and to whom payment is made by general agent out
of funds of general agent to deduct or withhold monthly or more often the
amounts of license fee due on all compensation paid to agents who are
considered employees.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.021 RAILROAD TRAIN SERVICE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Railroad employees who perform all of their work within the limits of
the city are subject to the license fee upon their entire gross earnings.
   (B)   Where these employees serve both within and without the city, the
license fee shall be measured by the proportionate share of their gross
earnings representing service within the city.
   (C)   Where the work of such an employee is preponderantly outside the city,
the employee shall not be deemed to be engaged in a service within the city.
   (D)   Officers and supervisory personnel whose headquarters are within the
city and whose occupations regularly require part of the work to be done
outside the city shall be allowed to prorate the compensation on which a
license is due for that part of the work done within the city. There shall be
no proration of compensation for employees headquartered within the city where
travel is only incidentally connected with the occupation. Individual cases of
claimed exemption under this division shall be subject to review by the Finance
Officer.
   (E)   No license fee shall be due on compensation of railroad employees for
sick leave.
   (F)   The fact that any particular railroad employee affected by the
foregoing regulations may be engaged in interstate commerce is not relevant in
determining the subjectability of compensation received by him or her.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.022 MOTOR FREIGHT AND COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION OTHER THAN RAILROADS.
   Since the circumstances involved in the employment of motor freight and
commercial transportation other than railroads are substantially analogous to
those of railroad train and engine service employees, the regulations
applicable thereto as contained in §
114.021 shall apply to employees in the aforementioned category.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.023 FEDERAL, STATE OR MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Compensation received from the federal government for services
performed within any federal reservation situated within the geographical
limits of the city, the title to which is in the federal government, is subject
income, even though exclusive jurisdiction thereof was granted to the federal
government by the state and the city.
   (B)   Compensation received from state, county and municipal governmental
agencies is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Refund of tax withheld and paid covering activities outside the city
shall be made to the employee upon application on a form provided by the
Finance Officer.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.024 REAL ESTATE SALESPERSONS AND BROKERS.
   (A)   Real estate salespersons or brokers who are engaged in business as
employees rather than independent contractors are not required to file a return
for the commissions earned by them. The employer is required to deduct the fee
from the commissions earned and remit the same to the Finance Officer.
   (B)   Real estate salespersons or brokers acting as independent contractors
are subject to a license fee on their wages, salaries or earnings in accordance
with the rules and regulations and definitions of this chapter.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.025 TAILORS.
   Tailors who receive work to perform in their own shops for a specified
amount to be paid for each garment are independent contractors.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.026 NURSES.
   (A)   A registered nurse, except as provided below, is in the same status as
any other professional person and is required to file a return upon his or her
gross payroll.
   (B)   A registered nurse regularly employed by a hospital, institution,
business entity or individual is subject to the withholding provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.027 EXECUTIVES AND DIRECTORS.
   (A)   An officer or director of a corporation performing services out of the
city, except for occasional visits to a city office to examine correspondence
and the like is not subject to the license fee.
   (B)   Where an organization meets in the city, and part of the work required
as officer or director of such an organization is done by him or her in the
city, his or her compensation is subject in the ratio that those duties bear to
his or her total duties.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.028 DOMESTIC SERVANTS.
   Domestic servants employed in private homes are not subject to the
provisions of this chapter. DOMESTIC SERVANTS are persons hired to work in or
around a private home to perform general household services, which include, but
are not limited to, nanny services, babysitting, cooking, cleaning, laundering,
gardening, yard and maintenance work.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.029 AMUSEMENT PARKS.
   (A)   In addition to any and all other amounts levied under any pertinent
portions of this chapter, the amount of additional license fee hereby imposed
and levied on “amusement parks” shall be determined and measured by the volume
of business conducted at the rate of the lesser of $2 or 10% of the cost of
each ticket, admission, rental or any other charge for service or use for or by
one individual person for any continuous period of time up to 24 hours.
   (B)   Every “amusement park” required to remit the license fee under this
chapter shall, for the quarter ending January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter make a return and report and pay to the city the license fee required
to be withheld and remitted under this chapter, unless the entity is permitted
or required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city. Any person, entity or employer who fails to withhold or
pay to the city any sums required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall
be personally and individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld,
paid or required to be withheld or paid in accordance with the provisions of
this section. In addition, the city shall have a lien upon all the property of
any entity who fails to pay over to the city sums required to be paid pursuant
to this section. Every entity required to remit the license fee pursuant to
this section shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and
file on a form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the tax
withheld and/or payable pursuant to this section. Every entity subject to this
section shall furnish verification of ticket sales to the Finance Director
substantiating the amount due and payable pursuant to this section.
   (C)   All monies derived from license fees under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the Finance Officer and placed to the credit of the
General Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in defraying
current general and incidental expenses of the city, including the retirement
of debt. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue for the General
Fund and it is not the intention of the city or this section to impose and to
require a license fee prohibited by law.
(Ord. 220.7-11-2009, passed 11-23-2009)
DETERMINING AMOUNT OF LICENSE FEE
§ 114.040 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF BUSINESS WITHIN CITY.
   In determining the proportion or amount of the subject gross receipts of a
business entity doing business within the city, the business entity shall use
and apply the computation of gross receipts formula set forth in §
114.003(B); provided, however, that if a business has payroll and/or sales
revenue in more than one tax district, the provisions of §
114.041 apply.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.041 COMPUTATION OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   The gross receipts of businesses and professions from activities conducted
within and without the city shall be computed as follows: multiply the entire
gross receipts from all sources by the apportionment percentage as set forth in
§
114.042; thereafter, multiply the product by the tax rates set forth in §
114.003(B).
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.042 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, gross receipts shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the tax district during the tax period by the
business entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total
compensation paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax
period. Compensation is paid or payable in the tax district based on the time
the individual’s service is performed within the tax district.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the tax district during the tax period,
and the denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
tax district if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
tax district regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the tax district and the purchaser is the
United States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property are
apportioned to the tax district based upon a fraction, the numerator of which
is the time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the tax
district and the denominator of which is the total time spent performing that
income-producing activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the tax district, the
business entity may petition the tax district or the tax district may require,
in respect to all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if
reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the tax district; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.043 COMPUTATION OF FEES FOR NEW BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any new businesses opening prior to the twenty-fifth of any month
shall pay a minimum fee to be set at the rate of $9 per month, including the
month of the opening of the business and each month for the rest of the
calendar year as the minimum business license fee. Businesses opening on the
twenty-fifth day of any month, or later in the month shall pay the rate of $9
per month for the rest of the calendar year, commencing in the month following
the month of the opening of the business.
      (1)   For example, if a business opens on August 24, the minimum license
fee will be for five months at the rate of $9 per month.
      (2)   If the business opened on August 25, the minimum license fee would
be calculated on four months at the rate of $9 per month.
   (B)   Gross receipts shall continue to be calculated based on gross receipts
for the calendar year of each business.
      (1)   For example, if a business opens on August 24, 1991, gross receipts
will be calculated from August 24, 1991 through December 31, 1991.
      (2)   The minimum license fee will be credited against the gross
receipts; however, no refunds will be paid in the event that the calculation of
gross receipts multiplied by .0006 is less than the minimum business privilege
tax as established herein.
      (3)   This section does not apply to businesses that have been in
existence inside the corporate limits within the past five calendar years that
move back into the corporate limits.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
PROCEDURE FOR FILING RETURNS; DEDUCTIONS; WITHHOLDING
§ 114.055 EMPLOYERS TO FURNISH LISTS OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every employer shall, on or before January 31 of each year, furnish the
Finance Officer a list of employees in such form as the employer may choose,
setting forth the following information in respect to the preceding calendar
year: name; address; and gross wages paid. Additionally, each employer or
business shall furnish a list of all contract laborers used by the employer or
business during the preceding year to the extent that the contractor has been
issued a Form W-2 or Form 1099.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.056 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every person or business whose earnings or gross receipts are subject
to the license fee imposed by this chapter shall on or before April 15 of each
year make and file a return with the Finance Officer. In the return file, there
shall be set forth the aggregate amount of salaries, wages, bonuses, incentive
payments, commissions, fees and/or compensation received or gross receipts, all
as defined in §
114.001, by and during the preceding year within the city and subject to the
license fee, together with such other pertinent information as the Finance
Officer may require.
   (B)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one and the same
employer and the license fee has in each instance been withheld or deducted by
the employer from the gross amount of compensation without adjustment for
expenses, it is not necessary for such employee to file a return for the year
unless required or requested to do so by the Finance Officer.
   (C)   If the return is made for a fiscal year or for any period other than a
calendar year, the return shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the close of the fiscal year or other period.
   (D)   The return shall also show the amount of the license fee imposed by
this chapter on such compensation or gross receipts or both.
   (E)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the Finance Officer the amount of fee shown to be due by the return.
   (F)   Where any portion of the license fee otherwise due shall have been
previously paid or deducted at the source and shall have been paid to the
Finance Officer by the person making the deduction, a credit equal to the
amount so paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due, and only the
balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of the filing of the
return. The minimum license fee for businesses shall be deducted from any
additional amounts due and owing with the final return; provided, however, that
all businesses shall owe no less than the minimum amount for that type of
business as set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves or withdraws from a tax district
during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner surrenders or
loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution, withdrawal or loss
or surrender of charter shall not defeat the filing of returns and the
assessment and collection of gross receipts taxes or tax withheld for the
period of that taxable year during which the business entity had gross receipts
or tax withheld in the tax district.
   (H)   Persons temporarily engaged in business, as defined in §
114.001, within the city, or temporarily performing services within the city,
shall file a return and pay the license fee upon the completion of the business
or employment.
   (I)   Each business or other entity engaged in any occupation, trade,
profession or other activity in the city shall pay the applicable minimum
license fee as set forth in §
114.003, payable in advance to the city for each calendar year or fraction
thereof in the case of a new business. All revenue derived under this chapter
shall be used for defraying current general and incidental expenses of the
city. The minimum fee payable as set forth in §
114.003 shall be a credit on the license fee as otherwise provided in this
chapter, only for the tax year which the minimum fee covers, and shall not be a
credit for any subsequent year.
   (J)   Each business entity shall also be required to complete and file a
list of all insurance providers for said business entity upon a form proscribed
and provided by the Finance Officer, or his or her designee. The form shall be
a part of and incorporated in the forms as required by other portions of this
chapter, and shall be filed by the due date set forth in §
114.056. The penalty for failure to file said form shall be the same as if said
business entity failed to make a return pursuant to §
114.080(E).
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.057 APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL INCOME TAX LAW; BUSINESS ENTITY TO KEEP
RECORDS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, computations of gross income and
deductions therefrom, gross receipts or sales, and deductions therefrom,
accounting methods and accounting procedures shall be as nearly as practicable
identical with those required for federal income tax purposes.
   (B)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of tins ordinance shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the tax district from time
to time may prescribe. Whenever the tax district deems it necessary, the tax
district may require a business entity, by notice served to the business
entity, to make a return, render statements under oath, or keep records, as the
tax district deems sufficient to determine the tax liability of the business
entity.
   (C)   The tax district may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the
taxable income of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of
the business entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.058 EMPLOYER TO WITHHOLD TAXES.
   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall deduct
and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed against the
compensation by a tax district. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in
accordance with this chapter. The city may impose minimum and maximum tax
liabilities for the tax on compensation.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.059 EMPLOYER TO REPORT TAX WITHHELD; LIABILITY OF EMPLOYER FOR FAILURE TO
WITHHOLD OR PAY TAX.
   (A)   Every employer, whose license fee and/or lax liability to the city by
and through payroll withholding is less than $2,000 per month, shall deduct and
withhold tax under KRS 67.780 and this chapter and shall, for the quarter
ending January 1 and for each quarter ending thereafter, on or before the end
of the month following the close of each quarter, make a return and report to
the city the tax required to be withheld under this chapter, unless the
employer is permitted or required to report within a reasonable time after some
other period as determined by the city.
   (B)   Every employer, whose license fee and/or tax liability to the city by
and through payroll withholding is $2.000 or more per month, shall deduct and
withhold tax under KRS 67.780 and this chapter and shall, for the month ending
January 31, 2009, and for each month thereafter, on or before the fifteenth day
of the month following the close of the prior month, make a return and report
to the city the tax required to be withheld under this chapter, unless the
employer is permitted or required to report within a reasonable time after some
other period as determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of §
114.058.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this chapter. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under KRS 67.780
and/or this chapter shall annually on or before February 28 of each year
complete and file on a form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation
of the tax withheld in each tax district where compensation is paid or payable
to employees. Either copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage
and tax statements, or a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent
information as determined by the tax district shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and license tax
deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee for payment
to a tax district during the preceding calendar year.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 220.7-12-2008, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 114.060 PERSONAL LIABILITY OF OFFICERS OF BUSINESS ENTITY.
   (A)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this chapter.
   (B)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
§
114.058 shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld under this chapter from
compensation paid to one or more employees of any business entity, and neither
the corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the tax
district nor the cessation of holding any corporate office shall discharge that
liability of any person; provided that the personal and individual liability
shall apply to each or every person holding the corporate office at the time
the tax becomes or became obligated. No person shall be personally and
individually liable under this division (B) who had no authority to collect,
truthfully account for, or pay over any tax imposed by this chapter at the time
that the taxes imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (C)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax
imposed under KRS 68.180, 68.197, 91.200 or 92.281 or this chapter shall be
liable for the tax notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B)
above.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.061 USE OF TAX YEAR AND ACCOUNTING METHODS REQUIRED FOR FEDERAL INCOME
TAX PURPOSES.
   If a business entity makes, or is required to make a federal income tax
return, the net profit or gross receipts shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.062 WHEN RETURNS TO BE MADE; COPY OF FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN TO BE
SUBMITTED WITH RETURN.
   (A)   All business entities’ gross receipts fee returns for the preceding
taxable year shall be made by April 15 in each year, except returns made on the
basis of a fiscal year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be
supplied by the city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing its return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion
of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business
entity to produce for inspection a copy of all statements and schedules in
support thereof. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments
made by the federal government.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 220.7-12-2008, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 114.063 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity for filing its
return if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the tax, requests the extension and pays the amount properly estimated as its
tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month,
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.064 LICENSES.
   (A)   All businesses shall be issued a license upon payment of the minimum
fee as required by this chapter.
   (B)   The license shall be kept in a conspicuous location or be available
for inspection by the Finance Officer or his or her designee upon request.
   (C)   There shall be a charge of $5 per copy for any additional copies of
said license requested.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 114.075 DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Finance Officer is required to:
   (A)   Collect the license fees imposed under this chapter;
   (B)   Recommend to the City Manager the adoption of such written rules and
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the proper enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. Any rules and regulations concerning the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter which may be promulgated by the
City Manager shall be subject to the approval of the City Commission in
accordance with KRS 83A.150(9);
   (C)   Receive the license fees imposed under this chapter; and
   (D)   Keep an accurate record showing the amount received by him or her from
each license payer, and withholding employer, and the date of the receipts.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.076 REGULATIONS ON FILE AND OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   The regulations contained in this chapter, together with all
amendments and supplements thereto and all changes therein, shall be on file
with the Finance Officer, and shall be open to public inspection.
   (B)   Copies thereof shall, so far as possible, be available to all license
payers, employers and their representatives upon request.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.077 AUDITING OF RETURNS; PAYMENT OF ADDITIONAL TAX; FEDERAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The following are hereby implemented:
      (1)   As used in this section and §
114.079, unless the context requires otherwise:
         (a)   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT means the date that the
adjustments made by the Internal Revenue Service to net income or gross
receipts as reported on the business entity’s federal income tax return become
final and unappealable; and
         (b)   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT means the revenue
agent’s report or other documents reflecting the final and unappealable
adjustments made by the Internal Revenue Service.
      (2)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit it, If the amount of tax computed by the city is greater than
the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax shall be
assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by the city
within five years from the date the return was filed, except as otherwise
provided in this division.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit or gross receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in net profit
or gross receipts, or both, which understatement or omission or both is in
excess of 25% of the amount of net profit or gross receipts stated in the
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time within six years after
the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A)(2), or six months from the date the tax district receives the
final determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
         (d)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
      (3)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final
determination of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the
federal audit.
      (4)   A tax district may initiate a civil action for the collection of
any additional tax due within the times prescribed in division (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the licensee to file an audit with the Finance
Officer when requested, the Finance Officer personally, or his or her agents or
employees, is authorized and empowered to examine the books, papers and records
of any business, employer or supposed employer, or of any license payer, or
supposed license payer, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made; or,
if no return was made, to ascertain the license fee imposed by this chapter.
The Finance Officer may enforce this right by application to the appropriate
court having jurisdiction over these matters.
   (C)   Every employer or supposed employer and every license payer or
supposed license payer is required to furnish to the Finance Officer, or his or
her duly authorized agents and employees, the means, facilities, and
opportunity for such examinations, investigation and audits as are authorized
in and by this chapter.
   (D)   The Finance Officer is further authorized to examine under oath any
person concerning any income which was or should have been returned for a
license fee, and to this end the Finance Officer shall have the right and power
to compel the production of books, papers and records and the attendance of all
persons before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he or she
believes to have knowledge of such income.
   (E)   Refusal of any such examination by any employer or persons subject to
the license fee, or presumed to be an employer or person subject to the license
fee, constitutes a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Agents and employees charged with the duty of inspection or auditing
of records of employers and license payers shall carry proper identification,
which shall be subject to examination by any person whose records are sought to
be examined.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.078 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES.
   Businesses and others subject to the license fee under this chapter are
required to keep such records as will enable the filing of true and accurate
returns, whether of fees withheld at source, or of fees payable upon earnings
or gross receipts, or both. Such records are to be preserved to enable the
Finance Officer or any agent or employee of the Finance Officer to verify the
correctness of the return filed.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.079 CLAIMS FOR REFUND OR CREDIT.
   (A)   Business entities.
      (1)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of any tax subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
may be refunded or credited, if said refund or credit is warranted, within two
years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a return or the date the
money was paid to the city, whichever is the later, except that:
            1.   In any case where the assessment period contained in this
chapter has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division shall be extended accordingly;
and
            2.   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division, or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division and division (A)(3) below, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
      (3)   Exclusive authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes
collected by the city is vested in the city.
   (B)   Individuals/employees.
      (1)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under this chapter,
refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent that the
amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under this chapter by
the employer.
      (2)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was made,
no refund or credit shall be allowed.
      (3)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities
performed outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose
employer has withheld and remitted the occupational license fee on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city to the city,
may file for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation
sufficient to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the
employer the percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to
approval of the refund.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.080 PENALTIES; CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION FILED WITH THE CITY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed
25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under this chapter may be subject to a penalty in an amount
equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The
total penalty levied pursuant to this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax subject to the provisions of this chapter, and all
increases, interest and penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax
is due and payable, a personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully makes a
false return, or willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (H)   (1)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall
intentionally and without authorization inspect or divulge any information
acquired by him or her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding
the tax schedules, returns or reports required to be filed with the tax
district or other proper officer, or any information produced by a hearing or
investigation, insofar as the information may have to do with the affairs of
the person’s business. This prohibition does not extend to information required
in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for taxation, or any other
infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter of public record, nor
does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized
agent with information respecting his or her own return. Further, this
prohibition does not preclude any employee of the tax district from testifying
in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the
tax district, in an action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any
action challenging a tax district tax laws.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (H)(1) above by
intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (3)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (H)(1) above by
divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
§ 114.081 FEES CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND.
   All monies derived from license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the Finance Officer and placed to the credit of the General
Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in defraying current
general and incidental expenses of the city, including the retirement of debt.
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue for the General Fund and
it is not the intention of the city or this chapter to impose and to require an
occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(Ord. 220.7-6-2008, passed 6-25-2008)
CHAPTER 115: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   License fee imposed
   
115.02   Fee based on percentage of premiums collected
   
115.03   When due
   
115.04   Written breakdown
   
115.05   City Clerk to transmit copy of this chapter to the Commissioner of
Insurance
   
115.06   Effective date
§ 115.01 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 1985 and thereafter on a calendar year basis.
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
§ 115.02 FEE BASED ON PERCENTAGE OF PREMIUMS COLLECTED.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy shall be 9% of the premiums actually collected within each
calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies on risks located
within the corporate limits of the city on those classes of business which such
company is authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to policy
holders; however, any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall
not include premiums received for insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the
provisions of the Worker’s Compensation Act and shall not include premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
§ 115.03 WHEN DUE.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
§ 115.04 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN.
Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
§ 115.05 CITY CLERK TO TRANSMIT COPY OF THIS CHAPTER TO THE COMMISSIONER OF
INSURANCE.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of this chapter, and
any amendment thereto, to the Commissioner of Insurance, Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
§ 115.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on January 1, 1985.
(Ord. 220.6, passed 9-25-1984)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, DOOR-TO-DOOR SELLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Door-to-Door Selling or Solicitation
   
116.01   Registration required
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Exemptions
   
116.04   Registration
   
116.05   Additional information
   
116.06   Investigation
   
116.07   Appeal
   
116.08   Regulations
   
116.09   Disclosure requirements
   
116.10   Records
   
116.11   Revocation of registration
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
116.25   Definition
   
116.26   License required
   
116.27   Application for license
   
116.28   Fee for license
   
116.29   License specification
   
116.30   Violation
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Street vendors, see
Ch. 119
DOOR-TO-DOOR SELLING OR SOLICITATION
§ 116.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to engage in direct sales within
the city without being registered for that purpose as provided herein.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Includes any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic
or eleemosynary person, partnership, association or corporation, or one
purporting to be such.
   CLERK. The City Clerk.
   DIRECT SELLER. Any individual who, for himself or herself, or for a
partnership, association or corporation, sells goods or takes sales orders for
the later delivery of goods, at any location other than the permanent business
place or residence of said individual, partnership, association or corporation,
and shall include, but not be limited to, peddlers, solicitors and transient
merchants. The sale of goods includes donations required by the DIRECT SELLER
for the retention of goods by a donor or prospective customer.
   GOODS. Includes personal property of any kind, and shall include goods
provided incidental to services offered or sold.
   PERMANENT MERCHANT. A direct seller who, for at least one year prior to the
consideration of the application of this subchapter to said merchant, has
continuously operated an established place of business in this city or has
continuously resided in this city and now does business from his or her
residence.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products or bakery goods
to regular customers on established routes;
   (B)   Any person selling goods at wholesale to dealers in such goods;
   (C)   Any person selling agricultural products which such person has grown;
   (D)   Any permanent merchant or employee thereof who takes orders away from
the established place of business for goods regularly offered for sale by such
merchant within the city and who delivers such goods in their regular course of
business;
   (E)   Any person who has an established place of business where the goods
being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis, and in which the buyer has
initiated contact with, and specifically requested a home visit by, said
person;
   (F)   Any person who has had, or one who represents a company which has had,
a prior business transaction, such as a prior sale or credit arrangement, with
prospective customer;
   (G)   Any person selling or offering for sale a service unconnected with the
sale or offering for sale of goods; and
   (H)   Any person holding a sale required by statute or by order of any court
and any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.04 REGISTRATION.
   Applicants for registration must complete and return to the Clerk a
registration form furnished by the Clerk which shall require the following
information:
   (A)   Name, permanent address and telephone number, and temporary address,
if any;
   (B)   Provide picture, at least driver’s license size, of applicant;
   (C)   Age, height, weight, color of hair and eyes;
   (D)   Name, address and telephone number of the person, firm, association or
corporation that the direct seller represents or is employed by, or whose
merchandise is being sold;
   (E)   Temporary address and telephone number from which business will be
conducted, if any;
   (F)   Nature of business to be conducted and a brief description of the
goods offered, and any services offered;
   (G)   Proposed method of delivery of goods, if applicable;
   (H)   Make, model, color and license number of any vehicle to be used by
applicant in the conduct of his or her business;
   (I)   The last three previous cities, villages, towns, where applicant
conducted similar business;
   (J)   Place where applicant can be contacted for at least seven days after
leaving the city; and
   (K)   Statement as to whether applicant has been convicted of any crime or
ordinance violation related to applicant’s transient merchant business within
the last five years; the nature of the offense and place of conviction.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each applicant shall present to the Clerk for examination:
      (1)   A driver’s license or some other proof of identity as may be
reasonably required;
      (2)   A state certificate of examination and approval from the sealer of
weights and measures where applicant’s business requires use of weighing and
measuring devices approved by state authorities; and
      (3)   A state health officer’s certificate where applicant’s business
involves the handling of food or clothing and is required to be certified under
state law; such certificate to state that applicant is apparently free from any
contagious or infectious disease, dated not more than 90 days prior to the date
the application for license is made.
   (B)   At the time the registration is returned, a fee of $10 shall be paid
to the Clerk to cover the cost of processing said registration.
   (C)   Upon payment of said fee, the Clerk shall register the applicant as a
direct seller and date the entry. Said registration shall be valid for a period
of one year from the date of entry, subject to subsequent refusal provided in §
116.06.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.06 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, the Clerk may refer it immediately
to the Chief of Police who may make and complete an investigation of the
statements made in such registration. He or she shall be allowed two working
days for investigation.
   (B)   The Clerk shall refuse to register the applicant if it is determined,
pursuant to the investigation above, that: the application contains any
material omission or materially inaccurate statement; complaints of material
nature have been received and proven against the applicant by authorities in
the three previous cities, villages and towns, in which the applicant conducted
similar business; the applicant was convicted of a crime, statutory violation
or ordinance violation within the last five years, the nature of which is
directly related to the applicant’s fitness to engage in direct selling; or the
applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision of §
116.04.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 APPEAL.
   Any person denied registration may appeal the denial through the appeal
procedure provided by ordinance or resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.08 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the conduct of registrants hereunder.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to call at any dwelling or
other place between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. except by appointment;
to call at any dwelling or other place where a sign is displayed bearing the
words “No Peddlers”, “No Solicitors” or words of similar meaning, to call at a
rear door of any dwelling place; or to remain on any premises after being asked
to leave by the owner, occupant or other person having authority over such
premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a direct seller to misrepresent or make
false, deceptive or misleading statements concerning the quality, quantity or
character of any goods offered for sale, the purpose of his or her visit, his
or her identity or the identity of the organization he or she represents.
      (1)   A charitable organization direct seller shall specifically disclose
what portion of the sale price of goods being offered will actually be used for
the charitable purpose for which the organization is solicitation.
      (2)   Said portion shall be expressed as percentage of the sale price of
the goods.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to impede the free use of
sidewalks and streets by pedestrians and vehicles. Where sales are made from
vehicles, all traffic and parking regulations shall be observed.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to make any loud noises or
use any sound amplifying device to attract customers if the noise produced is
capable of being plainly heard outside a 100-foot radius of the source.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to allow rubbish or litter
to accumulated in or around the area in which he or she is conducting business.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   All followers must comply with the city’ business license ordinance.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.10 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the Clerk all convictions for violation
of this subchapter, and the Clerk shall note any such violation on the record
of the registrant convicted.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 116.11 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The registration of a direct seller may be revoked by the City Commission
for any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986)
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 116.25 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, GENERAL PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS shall include
all persons who engage in or conduct a temporary or transient business in the
city for selling goods, wares and merchandise, with the intention of continuing
in such a business in the city for a period of not more than 30 days within a
12-month period. There is expressly exempt from the definition of “general
peddler and hawkers” activities of flea markets, craft fairs, charitable fund
raising activities which primarily benefit the local community and the sale of
farm products grown within the county.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992)
§ 116.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or general peddler or any merchandise, article or thing
without having first secured a license therefor.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.27 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and shall state
thereon the description and number of vehicles, if any, intended to be
operated, the kind of merchandise to be peddled, and the permanent address of
the peddler.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992)
§ 116.28 FEE FOR LICENSE.
   The fee for such license shall be $250 for an annual license. In addition,
each licensee shall post a surety bond of $500 per employee or shall deposit
cash with the office of the City Clerk in the amount of $500 per employee; the
bond or deposit shall be held to ensure the annual filing of tax returns with
the city. The annual tax return filed by the general peddler shall, in addition
to all other schedules and information provided thereon, contain a schedule of
each item of merchandise sold by such peddler and its sale price. If the tax
return, together with the required schedule of merchandise sold and the sales
price thereof, is not filed, of if the occupational taxes are not paid, then
the City Clerk is authorized to apply the amount of cash or deposit towards the
estimated tax due or to proceed against the surety for the amount of the
estimated tax. After all taxes have been paid, the Office of the City Clerk is
authorized to refund all amounts held or to release the surety on the bond
provided no other legal claims are made to the fund. This subchapter shall take
effect upon its passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992)
§ 116.29 LICENSE SPECIFICATION.
   No peddler shall ply his or her vocation on any street, sidewalk, park or
parkway or in any other public place unless the peddler’s license specifies
that peddling in such public places is permitted thereunder.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.30 VIOLATION.
   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler in the city shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
116.01 through
116.11 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
116.25 through
116.30 shall be fined not less than $1,000 for each offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 440.2-12-86, passed 12-8-1986; Ord. 220.10-4-92, passed 3-23-1992)
CHAPTER 117: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose and findings
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Classification
   
118.04   General restrictions, requirements and conditions
   
118.05   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos or live entertainment in
viewing rooms
   
118.06   Inspection
   
118.07   Regulations pertaining to live performances
   
118.08   Record-keeping requirements
   
118.09   Establishment licenses
   
118.10   Employee license
   
118.11   Registration, photographing and fingerprinting of sexually oriented
business employees
   
118.12   Sexually oriented business establishment premises to furnish a clear
view
   
118.13   Restrictions on advertisement
   
118.14   Location of sexually oriented business
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
relating to sexually oriented businesses.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials.
      (3)   Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in reports made available to the City
Commission, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City cf Rattan v. Play
Time Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young vs. American Mini Theaters, 426
U.S. 50 (1976), FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U S. 215 (1990), Barnes v.
Glen Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 120S.Ct.
1382(2000); and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to:
Dallas, Texas; Town and Village of Ellicottville, New York; St. Mary’s,
Georgia; Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles,
California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from
the report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the regulation of
sexually oriented businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the City
Commission finds the following.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented business defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidents of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those
which provide private or semi- private booths or cubicals for viewing films,
videos or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, non-A, non-B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States. Through December 31, 1997,
there have been 619,690 reported cases of AIDS in the United States.
      (8)   As of December 31,2003, there have been 4,071 reported cases of
AIDS in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, according to the Kentucky HIV/AIDS Semi-
Annual Report obtained through the Kentucky Cabinet for Health Services,
Department for Public Health.
      (9)   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure in
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (10)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (11)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
      (12)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult oriented
films.
      (13)   The findings noted in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(12) above raise
substantial governmental concerns.
      (14)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (15)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      (16)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens of the city
will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin operated, slug operated or for any form of consideration,
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disk players, or other image producing
devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an “Adult”.
   BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its
principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A night club, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performance which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any use or building or portion thereof which
contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron gives or
takes any form of consideration to engage in personal contact with or to allow
personal contact by employees, devices or equipment or by personnel provided by
the establishment or to view a series of dance routines, strip performances or
other choreography provided by the establishment which appeals to the prurient
interest of the patron including, but not limited to, bath houses, massage
parlors and related or similar activities
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult-type photographic repro-
ductions; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
then ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
dominant depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   CITY or CITY OF FRANKLIN. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Franklin, Kentucky or his or her
designee.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods on the premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides sexually oriented entertainment in a
sexually oriented business, whether or not an employee of the business and
whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for such entertainment.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any sexually oriented business, whether existing or opening
of such business; the conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business to any sexually oriented business; the additions of
any sexually oriented businesses to any other sexually oriented business; or
the relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who has graduated from a 500 hour
Massage Therapy School, accredited by a state licensure board or its equivalent
and who possesses a valid state license from any state which regulates the same
by means of a written examination; or may include a nurse, physician,
occupational therapist, physical therapist, podiatrist or chiropractor.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of,
the affairs and/or the conduct of a sexually oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment providing massages, for hire, by persons
other than a licensed health care professional, including, but not limited to,
those activities that rub, stroke, knead or tap the body with the hand or any
other instrument, or both, for the purpose of or engaging in sexual
gratification or as related to specified sexual activities. This definition
also includes those activities listed within the definition of sexual encounter
center. This does not include any licensed or sanctioned athletic activity that
generally employs or uses the services of a physical trainer and/or those
listed in the definition of “licensed massage therapist”.
   NUDE, NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY. A consistent or substantial course of conduct, such that the
sexually explicit films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing
businesses of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areolae at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areolae is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, holding
or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or breasts.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration
activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when
one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult amusement arcade, adult book store,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult stage theater, escort agency or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The following areas on a human body that are
less than completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy;
      (3)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (4)   Acts of human analigus, bestiality, buggery, cunnilingus,
coprophagy, coprophilia, fellation, flagellation, masochism, necrophilia,
pederasty, pedophilia, sadism, sadomasochism; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (5) above.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult amusement arcades;
   (B)   Adult book stores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult entertainment centers;
   (E)   Adult motels;
   (F)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (G)   Adult stage show theaters;
   (H)   Escort agencies;
   (I)   Massage parlors; or
   (J)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.04 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   All sexually oriented businesses classified under §
118.03 shall comply with the following require- ments.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive, no
owner or operator of an establishment shall knowingly permit a person under 18
years of age to be employed by or enter the establishment.
   (B)   An establishment must have an employee on duty at all times in which
the business is open and must be positioned at a station in the premises which
is located in such a manner that the entrance can be monitored at all times.
Any person who reasonably appears to be under the age of 18 shall be requested
to verify his or her age. All persons under the age of 18 discovered in the
establishment shall be immediately escorted out of the premises.
   (C)   No establishment, except for an adult motel, shall remain open at any
time between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday.
Further, no establishment, except for an adult motel, shall be open on Sunday
or any holiday legally recognized by the commonwealth.
   (D)   No act of specified sexual activities including, but not limited to,
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact
shall be permitted in or on the licensed premises of any sexually oriented
business, except legal sexual activity permitted by the laws of the
commonwealth in an adult motel. No owner, operator, licensee or employee of a
sexually oriented business shall knowingly permit these activities to occur on
the licensed premises.
   (E)   All sexually oriented businesses in operation in the city on the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the terms and conditions
hereof within 120 days after the effective date of this chapter; provided,
however, that any sexually oriented business in operation in the city on the
effective date of this chapter shall, to the extent not in compliance with §
118.14, be deemed a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.05 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN
VIEWING ROOMS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, live
entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical area, shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a viewing area
in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located shall be constructed
of not less than one-hour fire-restrictive material and shall contain no hole
or other perforation.
   (B)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there shall be an unobstructed view from a manager’s or cashier’s station of
every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. The view required in this section must be by
direct line of sight from the manager’s or cashier’s station. No manager’s or
cashier’s station shall exceed a size or area of 32 square feet.
   (C)   No viewing room or booth shall be obstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials. No patron
shall be permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated
as an area to which patrons are not permitted.
   (D)   No viewing room or booth shall be occupied by more than one person at
any time. No owner, operator or employee shall knowingly permit any viewing
room or booth to be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   (E)   No restroom shall contain any video reproduction devices or equipment.
   (F)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than ten foot candles as measured at
floor level.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the owner, operator or employee to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron or
customer is present in the premises.
   (H)   No owner, operator or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths.
   (I)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing booths or rooms.
   (J)   The owner, operator and/or employees shall, during each business day,
cause the walls between the viewing booths to be regularly inspected to
determine if any openings or holes exist.
   (K)   All floor coverings in viewing rooms or booths shall be non-porous,
easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
   (L)   There must be at least one employee on duty and situated at the
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 INSPECTION.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall, upon initial licensure or renewal of
licensure, permit representatives of the city, including representatives of the
City Police Department, Fire Department or other city departments or agencies
to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.07 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or any
other person to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business,
appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly or
intentionally in a sexually oriented business appear in a semi-nude condition
unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten
feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least 18 inches from the
floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude in a sexually oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally receive any
pay or gratuity directly from any patron or customer or for any patron or
customer to knowingly or intentionally pay or give any gratuity directly to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude, to knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any manager of a sexually
oriented business to knowingly or negligently allow an employee of the business
to violate these regulations. It shall be a defense to prosecution that the
manager was powerless to prevent the violation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this
chapter, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business manager for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter only if
the manager knowingly or negligently allowed such act to occur on the premises.
It shall be a defense to prosecution that the manager was powerless to prevent
the act. A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Commission and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above, shall be posted
near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each sexually oriented business shall maintain and retain for a period of
two years beyond the last date of employment, the full name, date of birth,
last known address, date of termination and Social Security number of all
persons employed by the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.09 ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES.
   (A)   General requirements. No person shall own or operate a sexually
oriented business establishment as defined hereinabove without a sexually
oriented business license. No person shall own or operate an unlicensed
sexually oriented business establishment.
   (B)   Application process. The owner of a sexually oriented business
establishment shall apply for a license with the City Clerk. The applicant
shall complete an application on the form prescribed by the city and shall
submit the following information:
      (1)   The name and business address of the establishment, including any
assumed or fictitious names under which the establishment is or will be
operated;
      (2)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, Social Security or tax identification number, date of birth
(including proof of date of birth through a valid birth certificate, driver’s
license or other picture identification document issued by a governmental
agency) of the owner and every officer, partner, director or person performing
a similar function to an officer, partner or director and the names and
addresses of any individual who owns ten percent or more of the partnership,
corporation, limited liability corporation or company, or limited liability
partnership that is the owner of the establishment;
      (3)   In the event the owner of the sexually oriented business
establishment is not the owner of record of the real property on which the
establishment is located or to be located, the application shall include a
notarized statement from the owner of record of the real property acknowledging
that a sexually oriented business establishment is located or to be located on
the real property upon the issuance of the license. The applicant also shall
furnish the name and address of the owner of record of the real property and a
copy of the lease or rental agreement or memorandum thereof;
      (4)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, Social Security number and photograph of all
persons engaged in the day to day management of the licensed premises. All
persons who at any time shall be responsible for attending the entrance of the
establishment for the purpose of compliance with this chapter shall be included
in this division (B)(4);
      (5)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, Social Security number and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to undertake to keep the applicant, if
licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions, requirements and
conditions set forth in this chapter, together with the written statement of
the individual stating that he has received a copy of this chapter and that he
or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply therewith;
      (6)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, Social Security number and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to be responsible for keeping current
the information required hereunder at all times together with a written
statement stating that he or she has received a copy of this chapter and that
he or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant the duty to comply
with the requirements therein pertaining to the disclosure of information;
      (7)   The name and address of any rental agent of the property on which
the establishment is located;
      (8)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at such
location;
      (9)   A criminal record report for the applicants, owners, officers,
directors, partners, employees or other persons whose names are required
pursuant to this section together with a list of all criminal convictions of
such persons within the last five years for the offenses listed in this
chapter. Any person who is on parole shall submit with the application the
terms of the parole;
      (10)   The name and mailing address of the owner to whom notice will be
given in case of violations or other matters affecting the license hereunder;
      (11)   Applicant must submit to fingerprinting by the City Police
Department;
      (12)   Applicant cannot owe any fees or taxes of any kind or nature to
the city;
      (13)   Applicant’s premises must meet all established zoning, fire,
building and/or plumbing codes and cannot provide direct interior access to
residential living quarters; and
      (14)   Applicant shall file a floor plan exhibiting all entrances, exits,
stairways and all rooms in the building and their intended use for purposes of
providing emergency services.
   (C)   Supplemental information. The information required by division (B)
above shall be at all times current even after the granting of the sexually
oriented business license. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or other
person designated in the licensee’s application to notify the City Clerk in
writing no later than 48 hours after the effective date of any change,
alteration or modification in any information contained in the application.
   (D)   Review process. The City Clerk shall inspect the premises within 20
days after the application has been submitted. The City Clerk shall issue a
license if all restrictions, requirements, conditions and all applicable
requirements of this chapter have been met pursuant to the time limits set
forth in this chapter. The City Clerk shall grant or deny a license application
within 25 days of the filing of such application.
   (E)   Prohibitions. No sexually oriented business establishment license
shall be issued if the applicant or any operator, officer, director, partner or
shareholder:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any of the following offenses within the last
five years:
         (a)   Gambling, conspiracy to promote gambling, or possession of
gambling records or gambling devices;
         (b)   Prostitution, promoting prost- itution, permitting prostitution,
solicitation for the purpose of prostitution or loitering for the purpose of
prostitution;
         (c)   The sale, transfer, possession or use of any controlled
substance;
         (d)   Sexual offenses including rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual
misconduct and indecent exposure;
         (e)   Distribution of obscene material to a minor, use of a minor to
produce, promote or distribute obscene material, advertising obscene materials,
promoting the sale of obscenity;
         (f)   Unlawful transaction with a minor (as defined in KRS Chapter 530
or other similar laws), use of a minor in a sexual performance, promoting a
sexual performance by a minor, or possession of or advertising matter
portraying a sexual performance by a minor; or
         (g)   Murder, manslaughter or felony assault (as defined in KRS
Chapters 507 or 508 or similar laws).
      (3)   Has failed in the operation of a sexually oriented business to
comply with any health, zoning, fire or building code enacted or adopted by the
city and has failed to correct such violation as provided in this chapter;
      (4)   The license application fee has not been paid;
      (5)   An applicant has fails to fully and completely and/or falsely
answer(s) a question or request for information on the license form;
      (6)   The proposed sexually oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than a district in which sexually oriented businesses are
allowed to operate under the ordinance adopting the zoning regulations of the
city and the county, as amended from time to time, or is not in compliance with
the location restrictions established for sexually oriented businesses in the
appropriate zoning district; and
      (7)   If the business is a corporation or other entity which is required
to be registered in the office of the Secretary of State, the representatives
of the business entity must show documentary evidence that said business entity
is authorized to do business in the commonwealth.
   (F)   Notice. If the City Clerk’s inspection reveals a failure to comply
with any provisions of this code, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant in
writing of that fact, stating what failures have been discovered, allowing a
reasonable time to correct such defects and informing the applicant of the
appeal procedure if the applicant does not agree with the City Clerk’s decision
or finding.
   (G)   No transfer of license.
      (1)   The sexually oriented business establishment license issued under
this section does not authorize the operation of a sexually oriented business
establishment at any place other than the address designated in the application
and such license is not transferable.
      (2)   A transfer is deemed to occur when the business is sold, leased or
subleased; when securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
business are sold or otherwise exchanged; or a trust, gift or other similar
legal device is established which transfers the ownership or control of the
business, except for a transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the
death of the natural person possessing the ownership or control of the
business.
   (H)   Access to license premises. The application for or the granting of a
sexually oriented business license is deemed to permit periodic inspections by
law enforcement officers, or other persons designated or authorized by the City
Clerk, of all areas of any establishment requiring a license under this chapter
for the purpose of verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. It shall be unlawful for an applicant, licensee, owner or operator of
a sexually oriented business to refuse to permit a law enforcement officer or
authorized person to inspect the premises at any time during normal business
hours of the establishment.
   (I)   Application and license fee.
      (1)   Concurrent with the submission of a license application, the
applicant shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of $100.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business shall pay to the city an annual
license fee of $5,000, which fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a
license and/or before July 1 of each year thereafter.
      (3)   This fee is in lieu of the regular occupational license fee charged
to businesses.
      (4)   When the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at
the rate of $416.66 per month for the remaining months of the current fiscal
year, which prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license.
   (J)   Expiration. Each license shall expire on June 30 of each calendar
year, unless earlier suspended or revoked. Application for a new license should
be made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date. If a licensee fails to
apply for a renewal of the license prior to June 1, there shall be a grace
period wherein no penalty shall be assessed against the applicant as long as
the application is submitted by July 15. If a licensee fails to submit an
application by July 15, there shall be a 10% or $500 penalty added to the
application fee. If a licensee and/or applicant fails to submit a renewal
application within 90 days of the expiration of the prior license, the license
will be considered to have lapsed and the provisions of this chapter relating
to suspension and, if the facts and circumstances warrant, revocation shall
apply.
   (K)   Suspension. A written intention to suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days shall be issued if it is determined that the applicant,
owner, operator, or an employee thereof has violated any provision of this
chapter, has been on the sexually oriented establishment premises while
intoxicated or in a disorderly condition (consistent with the definition of
disorderly conduct contained in KRS Chapter 525), has refused to allow an
inspection of the premises, or has knowingly permitted any violation of state
law to occur on the premises.
   (L)   Revocation.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a sexually oriented business license if a cause of suspension in division (K)
above occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a sexually oriented business license if he or she determines:
         (a)   An applicant knowingly gave false or misleading information in
the initial license or any subsequent license application;
         (b)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution or solicitation for prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly operated
the sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s
license was suspended; or
         (e)   A licensee knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation or other sexual activities or specified sex act to
occur in or on the licensed premises. This division (L)(2)(e) will not apply to
an adult motel, unless the licensee knowingly allowed the aforementioned sexual
activities to occur either: in exchange for any consideration; or in a public
place or within public view.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the revocation of the license.
      (4)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described above, the
City Clerk revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year and
the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license for one
year from the date the revocation becomes effective, provided that, if the
conditions of division (M)(2) are met, a provisional license will be granted
pursuant to that division. If subsequent to revocation, the enforcement officer
finds that the basis for revocation found in divisions (L)(2)(a) or (L)(2)(d)
have been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (M)   Hearing for denial, suspension or revo- cation; appeal.
      (1)   If the City Clerk determines that facts exist to deny, suspend or
revoke a sexually oriented business license, he or she shall notify the
applicant or licensee in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke,
including the grounds therefore.
         (a)   The notice shall be sent to the applicant or licensee by
personal delivery or certified mail at the address specified in the
application. Within five business days of receipt of such notice, the applicant
or licensee may provide to the City Manager, in writing, a response which shall
include a statement of reasons why the license should not be denied, suspended
or revoked and may include a request for a hearing. If a response is not timely
received by the City Manager, the notice shall be a final administrative act of
denial, suspension or revocation. If a timely response is received by the City
Manager, he or she shall within three business days of the receipt of the
response notify respondent of the hearing date on respondent’s denial,
suspension, or revocation proceeding.
         (b)   Within ten business days of the receipt of respondent’s mitten
response, the City Manager shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall
have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence and
witnesses on his or her or its behalf. If a response is not received by the
City Manager in the time stated or, if after the hearing, the City Manager
finds that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension or
revocation, then such denial suspension, or revocation shall become final five
days after the City Manager sends, by certified mail, written notice that the
license has been denied, suspended or revoked. Such notice shall include a
statement advising the applicant or licensee of the right to appeal such
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (c)   If the City Manager finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license, then within five days after the
hearing, the City Manager shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend or revoke
the license, and shall so notify the respondent, in writing, by certified mail
of such action and shall contemporaneously issue the license.
      (2)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes final,
the applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for a license has
been denied, or whose license has been suspended or revoked, shall have the
right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.10 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   General requirements. Any person who is or intends to be employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, working proprietor or
independent contractor, in a sexually oriented business as a sexually oriented
business employee, as defined hereinabove, shall obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license. The person seeking a sexually oriented business
employee license shall apply for a license with the City Clerk. Such
application shall be in writing, shall be on the form prescribed by the city
and shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The name, including any other name or alias used by the applicant
(e.g., “stage name”); present residence and business address; present residence
and business telephone number; date and place of birth (including a valid birth
certificate, driver’s license or other for of picture identification issued by
a governmental agency which includes the applicant’s date of birth); Social
Security number; date, issuing state and number of driver’s license; height,
weight, hair and eye color; a description of any distinguishing marks or
tattoos; and a recent photograph of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the sexually oriented business where the
applicant intends to work together with a written statement that he or she has
received a copy of this chapter and that he or she will fully undertake to
comply therewith.
      (3)   A statement detailing the applicant’s work history for the five-
year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant previously operated or was employed in a
sexually oriented business; and whether the applicant has ever had a sexually
oriented business or other similar license denied, revoked or suspended. In the
event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, the applicant shall list
the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and state in full the reason
for the denial, revocation or suspension.
      (4)   A criminal record report for the applicant together with a
statement whether within the last five years the applicant has been convicted
of any criminal activity described in this chapter, and if so, the specific
criminal activity involved and the date, place and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Issuance process. The City Clerk shall issue a sexually oriented
business employee license to an applicant if all provisions of this chapter
have been met. The City Clerk shall conduct an investigation to determine
whether the applicant has met all requirements for issuance of a license. The
City Clerk shall grant or deny a license application within ten days of the
filing of such application. The review, denial, suspension, revocation and
appeal procedures for the issuance of a sexually oriented business license in §
118.09 shall be the process for review, denial, suspension, revocation and
appeal for a sexually oriented business employee license.
   (C)   License prohibitions. No sexually oriented business employee license
shall be issued if the applicant is less than 18 years of age or has been
convicted of any of the offenses listed in this chapter within the last five
years preceding the date of the application.
   (D)   Application and license fees.
      (1)   Concurrent with the submission of the license application, the
applicant shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of $25.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business employee shall pay to the city an
annual license fee of $100, which fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a
license and on or before July 1 of each year thereafter.
      (3)   When the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at
the rate of $8.33 per month for the remaining months of the current fiscal
year, which prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license.
      (4)   Application for a new license should be made at least 30 days prior
to the expiration date.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.11 REGISTRATION, PHOTOGRAPHING AND FINGERPRINTING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All persons holding a sexually oriented business license and all
sexually oriented business Employees in any sexually oriented business
establishment or place of business, except as hereinafter provided, shall
register in a book of registration to be kept by the City Police Department,
and shall be hereby required to be registered, fingerprinted and photographed
by the City Police Department or its designated agency prior to the date of
commencing his or her business operations or employment with such
establishment.
      (2)   No person shall fail to register or be fingerprinted and
photographed prior to commencing such employment.
   (B)   Employer responsibility. No employer shall allow any person to be
employed unless the employee shall have registered and shall have been
fingerprinted and photographed as prescribed in division (A) above.
   (C)   Identification cards. The registrants under this section are required
to have the identification cards issued by the City Police Department or its
designated agency in their immediate possession during their hours of
employment. The identification card shall contain the registrant’s picture,
name, age, hair color, eye color, weight and place of employment.
   (D)   Fees. The city shall require a payment of $25 for each person
registered, which charge shall be applied to cover the cost involved in the
registration, including the cost of the identification card furnished to the
registrants.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.12 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES TO FURNISH A CLEAR
VIEW.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Any establishment licensed for a sexually oriented business shall
be maintained in such a manner and shall provide a clear view of the entire
area open to the public from the front entrance to the entertainment area,
whether at street level or otherwise.
      (2)   No partition, box, stall, screen, curtain or other device shall be
installed or placed so as to obstruct the view or the general observation of
persons in any entertainment area; however, partitions, subdivisions or panels
that are not higher than 48 inches from the floor shall not be construed as
obstructing a view or the general observation of persons from the front
entrance of the license premises.
   (B)   Prohibitions. The darkening of any portion of the licensed premises
open to the public in any manner as to prevent any person standing at the front
entrance from observing the conduct of patrons therein should be prohibited.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.13 RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business license holder shall be required to
identify such business as “adult” in any advertisement.
   (B)   No lettering, words or representation of matter relating to sexual
activities as defined in this chapter shall be placed upon any advertisement.
   (C)   Sexually oriented activities or photographs of the same shall not be
displayed within any licensed premises in such a manner as to be open to the
general public view from outside the license premises.
   (D)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a photograph or drawing of any signs to be displayed on the
exterior of the establishment with an indication as to the dimensions of the
same.
   (E)   Signage shall be posted in conspicuous locations indicating that
persons must be of appropriate age or older to enter.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.14 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A sexually oriented business may only be located in an L-I (light
industrial) district, as provided in the ordinance adopting the zoning
regulations of the city and the county, as amended from time to time, and only
in accordance with the placement/location requirements established therein.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
118.04 through
118.07,
118.09 and
118.14 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for a period of not more than 12 months, or both.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §§
118.08 and
118.12 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 in the discretion
of the district court.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
118.10,
118.11 and
118.13 shall upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
for a period of 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 220.16-10-2004, passed 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 119: STREET VENDORS
Section
   
119.01   Purpose and application
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   General regulations relating to street vendors
   
119.04   Vending prohibited in certain locations
   
119.05   Limitations within restricted vending districts
   
119.06   Suspension of regulations during city hosted or city sponsored events
 
   
119.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Peddlers, door-to-door sellers and solicitors, see
Ch. 116
§ 119.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and restrict street vendors in
order to promote the free flow of pedestrian traffic and in order to prevent
the creation of a nuisance. The provisions of this chapter shall apply on
public sidewalks, certain pedestrian areas belonging to the city, certain areas
used for community events, and rights of way belonging to the city.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY SANCTIONED EVENT. An event which is sponsored by the City of Franklin,
Kentucky, or an event in which the city approves streets to be closed from
general public use in order for them to be used for the event. Provided,
however, that the event shall only be for the duration for which the city has
approved or for which the length of time the streets have been approved to be
closed.
   CONVEYANCE. Includes any public or privately owned vehicle, method or means
of transporting people, bicycle, motorized or non- motorized vehicle, handcart,
pushcart, lunch wagon or any other device or thing whether or not mounted on
wheels.
   GOODS, WARES, MERCHANDISE. Includes, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables,
garden truck, farm products or provisions, dairy products, fish, game, poultry,
meat, plants, flowers, appliances, wearing apparel, jewelry, cosmetics and
beauty aids, health products, medicines, household needs or furnishings, food
of any kind, whether or not for immediate consumption, confections or drinks,
or any other article or thing whatsoever.
   RESTRICTED VENDING DISTRICT. The area within three blocks in any direction
from the Courthouse in Franklin, Simpson County, Kentucky.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person traveling by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any
other type of conveyance from place to place, house to house, street to street,
or on property owned or controlled by the city, carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise and offering and exposing them for
sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers; or who without
traveling from place to place, sells or offers for sale products from a wagon,
handcart, pushcart, motor vehicle, stand, conveyance or from his person who
submits orders, and as a separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers.
A STREET VENDOR shall include any VENDOR, PEDDLER, HAWKER, HUCKSTER, ITINERANT
MERCHANT OR TRANSIENT VENDOR, but shall exclude any vendor licensed or allowed
to operate under §
119.04.
   STREETS. All that area legally open to public use as public streets and
sidewalks, roadways, highways, parkways, alleys and any other public way.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS RELATING TO STREET VENDORS.
   All street vendors shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the sale or trade of
the goods, wares, or merchandise they are marketing, specifically including,
but not limited to all Health Department requirements; and
   (B)   Street vendors are required to have the applicable city business
license and any other applicable licenses to conduct business. Provided,
however, that street vendors permitted under §
119.05 shall not be required to have a city business license during city hosted
or sponsored events.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.04 VENDING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   Vending by street vendors is prohibited in the following locations:
   (A)   Within a restricted vending district during a city hosted or city
sanctioned event, except within designated vending zones. Restricted vending
districts and designated vending zones shall be those defined and/or designated
by this chapter;
   (B)   From a public parking lot, metered parking space, or designated
loading zone;
   (C)   Within 500 feet of any property used as a preschool, elementary
school, secondary school;
   (D)   On any sidewalk less than six feet in width;
   (E)   Within five feet of the entranceway to any building;
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any driveway entrance to a police or fire station
or within five feet of any other driveway;
   (G)   Within 20 feet of any bus stop zone;
   (H)   On any street or other area designated for vehicular traffic;
   (I)   Within five feet of the pedestrian crosswalk at any intersection or
designated pedestrian crossing point; and
   (J)   Within ten feet of any handicapped parking space or access ramp.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.05 LIMITATIONS WITHIN RESTRICTED VENDING DISTRICTS.
   Vending within restricted vending districts shall be subject to all rules
and regulations in this chapter, and in addition to the following:
   (A)   No goods, wares, merchandise or services shall be sold or displayed
other than those items approved by the host organization and/or city. The host
organization or city establish fees for vending during the event which shall be
paid by the street vendor prior to being allowed to sell goods, wares,
merchandise or services. If a street vendor fails to pay the fees established
by the host organization or City, they shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in §
119.99.
   (B)   No vending shall be permitted except within designated vending zones.
Vending zones shall be designated by the host organization(s) of an event
hosted or sanctioned by the city.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.06 SUSPENSION OF REGULATIONS DURING CITY HOSTED OR CITY SPONSORED EVENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may authorize temporary suspension of any
regulation under this chapter. Such suspension to be in effect during a city
hosted or sponsored event.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-007, passed 4-23-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL; MISCELLANEOUS
      
131.   BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL OFFENSES
      
132.   DRUGS AND THE LIKE
      
133.   FAMILY OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OBSCENE MATERIAL
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
137.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
138.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
      
139.   WEAPONS; FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL; MISCELLANEOUS
Section
General Offenses; General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions and explanations
   
130.02   Abuse of corpse
   
130.03   Cruelty to animals
   
130.04   Explosive substances
   
130.05   Posters on utility poles
   
130.06   Open burning
   
130.07   Fireworks
   
130.08   Wearing of hoods and masks
   
130.09   Offenses against justice
   
130.10   Obstruction of public administration
   
130.11   Riots and disorderly conduct
   
130.12   Eavesdropping and related offenses
   
130.13   Forgery and related offenses
Escape and Other Offenses Relating to Custody
   
130.25   Definitions
   
130.26   Escape in the third degree
   
130.27   Compounding a crime
   
130.28   Falsely reporting an incident
   
130.29   Impersonating a public servant
   
130.30   Tampering with public records
   
130.31   Soliciting unlawful compensation
   
130.32   Receiving unlawful compensation
   
130.33   Official misconduct in the first degree
   
130.34   Official misconduct in the second degree
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business and commercial offenses, see
Chapter 131
   Obscene material, see
Chapter 135
GENERAL OFFENSES; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS.
   (A)   Time limitation.
      (1)   Except as otherwise expressly provided, the prosecution of an
offense under this chapter must be commenced within one year after it is
committed.
      (2)   For purpose of this chapter, an offense is committed either when
every element occurs, or if a legislative purpose to prohibit a continuing
course of conduct plainly appears, at the time when the course or the
defendants complicity therein is terminated.
(KRS 500.050(2), (4))
   (B)   General definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTOR. Any natural person and, where relevant a corporation or an
unincorporated association.
      CRIME. A misdemeanor.
      DANGEROUS INSTRUMENT. Any instrument, article or substance which, under
the circumstances in which it is used, attempted to be used or threatened to be
used, is readily capable of causing death or serious physical injury. DANGEROUS
INSTRUMENT may include a laser.
      DEADLY WEAPON. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A weapon of mass destruction;
         (b)   Any weapon from which a shot, readily capably of producing death
or other serious physical injury, may be discharged;
         (c)   Any knife other than an ordinary pocket knife or hunting knife;
         (d)   Billy, nightstick, or club;
         (e)   Blackjack or slapjack;
         (f)   Nunchaku karate sticks;
         (g)   Shuriken or death star; or
         (h)   Artificial knuckles made from metal, plastic, or other similar
hard material.
      FELONY. An offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment of at
least one year in the custody of the Department of Corrections may be imposed.
      FENTANYL DERIVATIVE. Has the same meaning as in KRS 218A.010.
      GOVERNMENT. The United States, any state, county, municipality, or other
political unit, or any department, agency, or subdivision of any of the
foregoing, or any corporation or other association carrying out the functions
of government.
      HE. Any natural person and, where relevant, a corporation or an
unincorporated association.
      IMPACTED BY THE DISASTER. The location or in reasonable proximity to the
location where a natural or man-made disaster has caused physical injury,
serious physical injury, death, or substantial damage to property or
infrastructure.
      LASER. Any device designed or used to amplify electromagnetic radiation
by stimulated emission that emits a beam, other than a medical laser when used
in medical treatment or surgery.
      LAW. Includes statutes, ordinances and property adopted regulatory
provisions. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires. LAW also includes
the common law.
      MINOR. Any person who has not reached the age of majority as defined in
KRS 2.015.
      MISDEMEANOR. An offense, other than a traffic infraction, for which a
sentence to a term of imprisonment of not more than 12 months can be imposed.
      NATURAL or MAN-MADE DISASTER. A tornado, storm, or other severe weather,
earthquake, flood, or fire that poses a significant threat to human health and
safety, property, or critical infrastructure.
      OFFENSE. Conduct for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment or to a
fine is provided by any law of this state or by any law, local law or ordinance
of a political subdivision to this state or by any law; order, rule or
regulation of any governmental instrumentality authorized by law to adopt the
same.
      PERSON. Human being, and where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, an unincorporated association, a partnership, a government or a
governmental authority.
      PHYSICAL INJURY. Substantial physical pain or impairment of physical
condition.
      POSSESSION. To have actual physical possession or otherwise to exercise
actual domain or control over a tangible object.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical injury which creates a substantial risk
of death, or which causes serious and prolonged disfigurement, prolonged
impairment of health, prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily organ, or eye damage or visual impairment. For a child 12 years of age
or less at the time of the injury, or for any person if the relationship
between the perpetrator and the victim meets the definition of a family member
or  member of an unmarried couple as defined in KRS 403.720, or a dating
relationship as defined in KRS 456.010, a serious physical injury includes but
is not limited to the following:
         (a)   Bruising near the eyes, or on the head, neck, or lower back
overlying the kidney;
         (b)   Any bruising severe enough to cause underlying muscle damage as
determined by elevated creatine kinase levels in the blood;
         (c)   Any bruising or soft tissue injury to the genitals that affects
the ability to urinate or defecate;
         (d)   Any testicular injury sufficient to put fertility at risk;
         (e)   Any burn near the eyes or involving the mouth, airway, or
esophagus;
         (f)   Any burn deep enough to leave scarring or dysfunction of the
body;
         (g)   Any burn requiring hospitalization, debridement in the operating
room, IV fluids, intubation, or admission to a hospital’s intensive care unit;
         (h)   Rib fracture;
         (i)   Scapula or sternum fractures;
         (j)   Any broken bone that requires surgery;
         (k)   Head injuries that result in intracranial bleeding, skull
fracture, or brain injury;
         (l)   A concussion that results in the child becoming limp,
unresponsive, or results in seizure activity;
         (m)   Abdominal injuries that indicate internal organ damage
regardless of whether surgery is required;
         (n)   Any injury requiring surgery;
         (o)   Any injury that requires a blood transfusion; and
         (p)   Any injury requiring admission to a hospital’s critical care
unit.
      UNLAWFUL. Contrary to law or, where the context so requires, not
permitted by law. It does not mean wrongful or immoral.
      VIOLATION. An offense, other than a traffic infraction, for which a
sentence to a fine only can be imposed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means:
         (a)   Any destructive device as defined in KRS 237.030, but not
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.700;
         (b)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical injury through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic
or poisonous chemicals or their precursors;
         (c)   Any weapon involving a disease organism; or
         (d)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life.
(KRS 500.080)
   (C)   Definitions pertaining to general principles of liability. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CULPABLE MENTAL STATE. One of the following:
         INTENTIONALLY. A person acts intentionally with respect to a result or
to conduct described by a statute defining an offense when his or her conscious
objective is to cause that result or to engage in that conduct;
         KNOWINGLY. A person acts knowingly with respect to conduct or to
circumstance described by a statute defining an offense when he or she is aware
that his or her conduct is of that nature or that the circumstance exists;
         RECKLESSLY. A person acts recklessly with respect to a result or to a
circumstance described by a statute defining an offense when he or she fails to
perceive a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the result will occur or
that the circumstance exists. The risk must be of such nature and degree that
failure to perceive it constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care
that a reasonable person would observe in the situation; or
         WANTONLY. A person acts wantonly with respect to a result or to a
circumstance described by a statute defining an offense when he or she is aware
of and consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the
result will occur or that the circumstance exists. The risk must be of such
nature and degree that disregard thereof constitutes a gross deviation from the
standard of conduct that a reasonable person would observe in the situation. A
person who creates such a risk but is unaware thereof solely by reason of
voluntary intoxication also acts WANTONLY with respect thereto.
(KRS 501.010 and KRS 501.020)
      INTOXICATION. A disturbance of mental or physical capacities resulting
from the introduction of substances into the body.
      VOLUNTARY ACT. A bodily movement performed consciously as a result of
effort or determination and includes the possession of property if the actor
was aware of his or her physical possession or control thereof for a sufficient
period to have been able to terminate it.
      VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION. Intoxication caused by substances which the
defendant knowingly introduces into his or her body, the tendency of which to
cause intoxication he or she knows or ought to know, unless he or she
introduces them pursuant to medical advice or under such duress as would afford
a defense to a charge of crime.
(KRS 501.010)
   (D)   Criminal liability. A person is not guilty of a criminal offense when:
      (1)   He or she has engaged in conduct which includes a voluntary act or
the omission to perform a duty which the law imposes upon him or her and which
he or she is physically capable of performing; and
      (2)   He or she has engaged in such conduct “intentionally”, “knowingly”
“wantonly” or “recklessly” as the law may require, with respect to each element
of the offense, except that this requirement does not apply to any offense
which imposes absolute liability, as defined herein.
(KRS 501.030)
   (E)   Culpability; construction of statutes. Although no culpable mental
state is expressly designated in a statute defining an offense, a culpable
mental state may nevertheless be required for the commission of such offense,
or with respect to some or all of the material elements thereof, if the
proscribed conduct necessarily involves such culpable mental state.
(KRS 501.040)
   (F)   Absolute liability. A person may be guilty of an offense without
having one of the culpable mental states defined in division (G) below, only
when:
      (1)   The offense is a violation or a misdemeanor as defined in division
(B) above, and no particular culpable mental state is included within the
definition of the offense; or
      (2)   The offense is defined by a statute other than this code and the
statute clearly indicates a legislative purpose to impose absolute liability
for the conduct described.
(KRS 501.050)
   (G)   Criminal attempt.
      (1)   A person is guilty of criminal attempt to commit a crime when,
acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for commission of the
crime, he or she:
         (a)   Intentionally engages in conduct which would constitute the
crime if the attendant circumstances were as he or she believes them to be; or
         (b)   Intentionally does or omits to do anything which, under the
circumstances as he or she believes them to be, is a substantial step in a
course of conduct planned to culminate in his or her commission of the crime.
      (2)   Conduct shall not be held to constitute a substantial step under
division (G)(1)(b) above, unless it is an act or omission which leaves no
reasonable doubt as to the defendant’s intention to commit the crime which he
or she is charged with attempting.
      (3)   A person is guilty of criminal attempt to commit a crime when he or
she engages in conduct intended to aid another person to commit that crime,
although the crime is not committed or attempted by the other person, provided
that his or her conduct would establish complicity under KRS 502.020 if the
crime where committed by the other person.
      (4)   A criminal attempt is a:
         (a)   Class A misdemeanor when the crime attempted is a Class C or D
felony;
         (b)   Class B misdemeanor when the crime attempted is a misdemeanor.
      (5)   Notwithstanding KRS Chapter 532, a person who has been convicted
of, or entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, criminal attempt to
commit murder of a first responder shall be sentenced to imprisonment for:
         (a)   At least 20 years;
         (b)   Life; or
         (c)   Life without benefit of probation or parole until the person has
served a minimum of 25 years.
(KRS 506.010)
   (H)   Criminal attempt defense of renunciation.
      (1)   In any prosecution for criminal attempt to commit a crime, it is a
defense that, under circumstances manifesting a voluntary and complete
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose, the defendant abandoned his or her
effort to commit the crime and, if mere abandonment was insufficient to avoid
the commission of the crime, took the necessary affirmative steps to prevent
its commission.
      (2)   A renunciation is not “voluntary and complete” within the meaning
of this section if it is motivated in whole or in part by:
         (a)   A belief that circumstances exist which pose a particular threat
of apprehension or detection of the accused or another participant in the
criminal enterprise or which render more difficult the accomplishment of the
criminal purpose; or
         (b)   A decision to postpone the criminal conduct until another but
similar object.
(KRS 506.020)
   (I)   Criminal solicitation.
      (1)   A person is guilty of criminal solicitation when, with the intent
of promoting or facilitating the commission of a crime, he or she commands or
encourages another person to engage in specific conduct which would constitute
that crime or an attempt to commit that crime or which would establish the
other’s complicity in its commission or attempted commission.
      (2)   A criminal solicitation is a:
         (a)   Class A misdemeanor when the crime solicited is a Class C or D
felony; and/or
         (b)   Class B misdemeanor when the crime solicited is a misdemeanor.
(KRS 506.030)
   (J)   Criminal conspiracy.
      (1)   A person having the intention of promoting or facilitating the
commission of a crime is guilty of criminal conspiracy when he or she:
         (a)   Agrees with one or more persons that at least one of them will
engage in conduct constituting that crime ir an attempt or solicitation to
commit such a crime; or
         (b)   Agrees to aid one or more persons in the planning or commission
of that crime or an attempt or solicitation to commit such a crime.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (J)(3) below, a criminal conspiracy
is a:
         (a)   Class A misdemeanor when the object of the conspiratorial
agreement is a Class C or D felony; and/or
         (b)   Class B misdemeanor when the object of the conspiratorial
agreement is a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who is 18 years of age or older who engages in a
criminal conspiracy with a minor shall be charged one level higher than the
level provided for the offense which is the object of the conspiratorial
agreement.
(KRS 506.040)
   (K)   Conspiracy; general provisions.
      (1)   No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit a crime unless
an overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is alleged and proved to have
been committed by one of the conspirators.
      (2)   A person who conspires to commit more than one crime, all of which
are the object of the same agreement or continuous conspiratorial relationship,
is guilty of only one conspiracy. The classification of this crime under
division (J)(2) above, shall be determined by the most serious offense which he
or she is found guilty of conspiring to commit.
      (3)   If a person guilty of conspiracy, as defined in division (J) above
knows that a person with whom he or she conspires to commit a crime has
conspired with another person or persons to commit the same crime, he or she is
guilty of conspiring to commit the crime with the other person or persons,
whether or not he or she knows their identity.
      (4)   No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit a crime when an
element of that crime is agreement with the person with whom he or she is
alleged to have conspired or when the crime is so defined that his or her
conduct is inevitable incident to its commission.
(KRS 506.050)
   (L)   Criminal facilitation.
      (1)   A person is guilty of criminal facilitation when, acting with
knowledge that another person is committing or intends to commit:: a crime, he
or she engages in conduct which knowingly provides such person with means or
opportunity for the commission of the crime and which in fact aids such person
to commit the crime.
      (2)   Criminal facilitation is a:
         (a)   Class A misdemeanor when the crime is facilitated is a Class C
or D felony; or
         (b)   Class B misdemeanor when the crime/facilitated is a misdemeanor.
(KRS 506.080)
   (M)   Multiple convictions.
      (1)   A person may not be convicted on the basis of the same course of
conduct of both the actual commission of a crime and:
         (a)   A criminal attempt to commit that crime;
         (b)   A criminal solicitation of that crime;
         (c)   A criminal facilitation of that crime; or
         (d)   A conspiracy to commit that crime, except as provided in
division (M)(2) below.
      (2)   A person may be convicted on the basis of the same course of
conduct of both the actual commission of a crime and a conspiracy to commit
that crime when the conspiracy from which the consummated crime resulted had as
an objective of the conspiratorial relationship the commission of more than one
crime.
      (3)   A person may not be convicted of more than one of the offenses
defined in divisions (G), (I), (J) and (L) above, for a single course of
conduct designed to consummate in the commission of the same crime.
(KRS 506.110)
(1980 Code, § 1020.1)
§ 130.02 ABUSE OF CORPSE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of abuse of a corpse when, except as authorized by
law, he or she intentionally treats a corpse in a way that could outrage
ordinary family sensibilities.
   (B)   Abuse of a corpse is a Class D felony.
(1980 Code, § 1020.19-1)
(KRS 525.120)
§ 130.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person is guilty to cruelty to animals when, except as authorized by
law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes.
      (3)   For humane purposes; or
      (4)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 5 25.130)
(1980 Code, § 1020.19-2)
§ 130.04 EXPLOSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   Any person who shall store or keep within the city any dynamite or other
highly explosive substance commonly used in blasting, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $25. The continuance of the storage for 12 consecutive hours shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code, § 1020.20-2)
§ 130.05 POSTERS ON UTILITY POLES.
   Any person who shall nail, tack, paste or place in any manner whatsoever,
bills, posters or advertisements upon any telephone or utility poles shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or mere than $100 for each offense.
(1980 Code, § 1020.20-4)
§ 130.06 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Regulations.
      (1)   Open burning inside the city limits shall comply with KRS Chapter
149 and open burning regulations promulgated in 401 KAR 63:005.
      (2)   Open burning inside the city limits is only allowed by permit with
the following exceptions:
         (a)   Contained fires set pursuant to division (B) herein below; or
         (b)   Fires set for the purpose of training employees in the methods
of firefighting.
   (B)   Residential/recreational burning.
      (1)   A burn permit is not required for the noncommercial burning of
permitted materials for warmth, cooking, camping, or similar purposes in an
area that is three feet or less in diameter and three feet or less in height.
Materials burned should be of seasoned wood and may not include rubbish,
leaves, grass or other substances that will give off substantial smoke or
obnoxious odors.
      (2)   The fire must be contained to a fire pit, either commercially built
or one constructed with brick, concrete, stone, or metal. The fire must be
completely contained in the fire pit.
      (3)   A burn permit is required for burning of permitted materials that
are not contained to a fire pit.
      (4)   All such fires must be attended at all time by an individual over
18 years of age. The smoke and embers from any such fire shall not negatively
affect neighboring property owners or create a risk of fire spread.
   (C)   Commercial/other burning.
      (1)   A burn permit is required for any open burning of trees, stumps,
brush, and other vegetation for site-clearing purposes. The burning of non-
permitted materials is prohibited, and all material being burned shall have
been generated on site.
      (2)   The Fire Department or city reserves the right to impose additional
safety requirements upon inspection and before issuing a permit.
      (3)   The fire should be attended by an individual over 18 years of age
at all times and must be completely extinguished when workers or attendants are
not on site.
      (4)   A permit holder shall take those precautions, such as the use of
commercial blowers or air curtains, reasonably necessary to prevent smoke and
embers from any such fire.
      (5)   The smoke and embers from the fire should not negatively affect
neighboring property owners or create a risk of fire spread.
   (D)   Ceremonial bonfires.
      (1)   Ceremonial bonfires consist of the burning of heavy timber, large
tree limbs, or other vegetation arranged in a pile for the purpose of public
gathering. The burning of non-permitted materials in a bonfire is prohibited.
      (2)   Inspection of the burn pile and the site are required prior to
burning and a permit is required. The Fire Department is responsible for
inspection and has the final say as to the size of the pile, site requirements,
and permission for the bonfire.
   (E)   Burn permit.
      (1)   Application and issuance.
         (a)   The Fire Department shall be responsible for accepting
applications for and issuing burn permits authorized in this chapter. The City
Manager is the authorized person to accept applications on behalf of the city.
The permit shall be issued and approved by the Fire Department and approved by
the City Manager.
         (b)   The permit may be revoked by the Fire Department or City Manager
upon receipt of one or more verified complaints by a person(s) that the fire/
burn does not conform to proper regulations or such that the fumes are
obnoxious or the fire and/or smoke pose a health and/or safety hazard to the
public or neighboring property owners.
      (2)   Revocation appeals to City Commission. Persons or entities that
have a permit revoked may request an appeal to the City Commission at a time
and date as determined by the Mayor.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to a local civil
fine of $100.
      (2)   Companies violating provisions of this section shall be subject to
a local civil fine of $500.
      (3)   Each day any violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   Additional fines may be imposed by other state and federal
agencies.
(Ord. 2023-036, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 130.07 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use or sale of any firecrackers, skyrockets, or any other
explosives ordinarily known and referred to as “fireworks” or “consumer
fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter 227) are prohibited
except as set forth herein or in the “Gross Receipts License Fee Ordinance” (
Chapter 114 of this code).
   (B)   “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS
Chapter 227) shall not be fired, exploded, or used in the city limits, except
as follows:
      (1)   “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in
KRS Chapter 227) may be used, fired or exploded on July 3 and July 4 of each
year between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, and
regardless of the day of the week on which the Fourth of July falls, persons
are allowed to use, fire or explode fireworks on any other date specifically
named or designated by the City Commission as the date to celebrate the Fourth
of July festivities, if other than the actual date of July 4th. In addition,
the City Commission may approve, by motion or executive order, the use, firing
or exploding of fireworks at other times and for other holidays or events as
they deem appropriate.
(Ord. 1020.30-5-2011, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 1020.30-6-2011, passed 6-13-2011;
Ord. 2018-012, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 130.08 WEARING OF HOODS AND MASKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All walks, alleys, streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes,
roads, highways or other ways or thoroughfares dedicated to public use or owned
or maintained by public authority; all grounds and buildings owned, leased or
operated for the use of organizations enjoying all tax-exempt privileges as a
charitable use.
   (B)   Wearing hoods or masks in a public place. No person or persons shall,
while wearing any hood, mask, or device whereby a substantial portion of the
face is bidden or covered so as to conceal the identity of the wearer, enter,
be or appear in any public place with the city.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the provisions of division
(B) above:
      (1)   Any person under 12 years of age;
      (2)   Any person wearing traditional holiday costumes in season;
      (3)   Any person using masks in theatrical productions including use in
mardi gras celebrations and masquerade balls;
      (4)   Any person lawfully engaged in trades or employment or in a
sporting activity where a mask or facial covering is worn for the purpose of
ensuring the physical safety of the wearer, or because of the nature of the
occupation, trade or professional or sporting activity;
      (5)   Any person wearing a gas mask in drills, exercises or emergencies;
      (6)   Any person wearing a mask for protection against inclement weather;
and
      (7)   Any person wearing a mask because of any illness, allergy or on the
advice of his or her physician.
(Ord. 1020.21, passed 12-16-1981) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE.
   (A)   Definitions pertaining to offenses against justice. For the purpose of
this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUROR. A person who is a member of any impaneled jury, including a grand
jury, and includes any person who has been drawn or summoned to attend as a
prospective juror.
      MATERIAL FALSE STATEMENT. Any false statement, regardless of its
admissibility under the rules of evidence which could have affected the outcome
of the proceeding. Whether a falsification is material in a given factual
situation is a question of law.
      OATH. An affirmation or other legally authorized manner of attesting to
the truth of a statement. A written statement shall be treated as if made under
OATH when:
         (a)   The statement was made on or pursuant to a form bearing notice,
authorized by lav;, that false statements made there in are punishable; or
         (b)   The document recites that the statement was made under oath,
and:
            1.   The declarant was aware of such recitation at the time he or
she made the statement;
            2.   The declarant intended that the statement be represented as
sworn; and
            3.   The statement was in fact so represented by its delivery or
utterance with the signed jurat of an officer, authorized to administer oaths
appended thereto.
      OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. A proceeding heard before any legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to hear
evidence under oath, including any referee, hearing examiner, commissioner,
notary or other person taking testimony or depositions in any such proceedings.
      PUBLIC SERVANT.
         (a)   Any public officer or employee of the state or of any political
subdivision thereof or of any governmental instrumentality within the state;
         (b)   Any person exercising the functions of any such public officer
or employee;
         (c)   Any person participating as advisor, consultant or otherwise in
performing a governmental function, but not including witnesses; or
         (d)   Any person elected, appointed or designated to become a public
servant although not yet occupying that position.
      REQUIRED OR AUTHORIZED BY LAW. The oath is provided for by statute,
regulation, court rule or otherwise by law.
      STATEMENT. Any representation, but includes a representation of opinion,
belief or other state of mind only if the representation clearly relates to
state of mind apart from or in addition to any facts which are the subject of
the representation.
(KRS 5 24.010)
   (B)   General provisions pertaining to offenses against justice.
      (1)   (a)   When a person has made inconsistent statements under oath,
both having been made within the period of the statute of limitations, the
prosecution may proceed by setting forth the inconsistent statements in a
single charge alleging in the alternative that one or the other was false and
not believed by the defendant. In such case it shall not be necessary for the
prosecution to prove which statement was false but only that one or the other
was false and not believed by the defendant to be true.
         (b)   The highest offense of which a person may be convicted in such
an instance shall be determined by hypothetically assuming each statement to be
false. If perjury of different degrees would be established by the making of
the two statements, the person may only be convicted of the lesser degree. if
perjury or false swearing would be established by the making of the two
statements, the person may only be convicted of false swearing.
(KRS 523.050)
      (2)   In any prosecution for perjury or false swearing, except
prosecution based upon inconsistent statements pursuant to division (B)(1)
above, falsity of a statement may not be established solely through
contradiction by the testimony of a single witness.
(KRS 523.060)
      (3)   No prosecution shall be brought under this section when the
substance of the defendant’s false statement is his or her denial of guilt in a
previous criminal trial.
(KRS 523.070)
      (4)   It is not a defense to prosecution under this section that;
         (a)   The oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an
irregular marine r or that the declarant was not competent to make the
statement; or
         (b)   The court in which the acts constituting the offense were
committed lacked jurisdiction over the person of the accused of the subject
matter.
(KRS 523.080)
      (5)   No person shall be guilty of an offense under this section if he or
she retracted the falsification in the course of the proceeding in which it was
made before such false statement substantially affected proceeding and before
it became manifest that its falsity was or would be exposed.
(KRS 523.090)
   (C)   Perjury in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of perjury in the second degree when he or she
makes a material false statement which he or she does not believe in a
subscribed written instrument for which an oath is required or authorized by
law with the intent to mislead a public servant in the performance of his or
her official functions.
      (2)   Perjury in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 523.030)
   (D)   False swearing.
      (1)   A person is guilty of false swearing when he or she makes a false
statement which he or she does not believe under oath required or authorized by
law.
      (2)   False swearing is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 523.040)
   (E)   Unsworn falsification to authorities.
      (1)   A person is guilty of unsworn falsification to authorities when,
with an intent to mislead a public servant in the performance of his or her
duty, he or she:
         (a)   Makes a material false written statement, which he or she does
not believe, in an application for any pecuniary or other benefit or in a
record required by law to be submitted to any governmental agency;
         (b)   Submits or invites reliance on any writing which he or she knows
to be a forged instrument, as defined in §
130.13(A); or
         (c)   Submits or invites reliance on any sample, specimen, map,
boundary mark or other object he or she knows to be false.
      (2)   Unsworn falsification to authorities is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 523.100)
   (F)   Tampering with a witness.
      (1)   A person is guilty of tampering with a witness when, knowing that a
person is or may be called as a witness in an official proceeding, he or she:
         (a)   Induces or attempts to induce the witness to absent himself or
otherwise avoid appearing or testifying at the official proceeding with intent
to influence the outcome thereby; or
         (b)   Knowingly makes any false statement or practices any fraud or
deceit with intent to affect the testimony of the witness.
      (2)   Tampering with a witness is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 524.050)
   (G)   Jury tampering.
      (1)   A person is guilty of jury tampering when, with intent to influence
a juror’s vote, opinion, decision or other action in a case, he or she
communicates or attempts to communicate, directly or indirectly, with a juror
other than as a part of the proceedings in the trial of the case.
      (2)   Jury tampering is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 524.090)
   (H)   Simulating legal process.
      (1)   A person is guilty of simulating legal process when he or she
delivers or causes to be delivered to another a request for the payment of
money on behalf of a creditor knowing that in form and substance it simulates
an legal process issued by any court of this state.
      (2)   Simulating legal process is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 524,110)
(1980 Code, § 1020.10)
§ 130.10 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Definitions pertaining to the obstruction of public administration.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BENEFIT. Gain or advantage to the beneficiary or to a third person
pursuant to the desire or consent of the beneficiary.
(KRS 519.010)
      GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION. Any activity which a public servant is legally
authorized to undertake on behalf of the governmental unit which he or she
serves.
      PECUNIARY BENEFIT. Benefit in the form of money, property, commercial
interests or anything else the primary significance of which is economic gain.
(KRS 521.010)
      PUBLIC RECORD. Includes all official books, papers, exhibits or records
created by or received and retained in any governmental office or agency.
      PUBLIC SERVANT.
         (a)   Any public officer or employee of the state or of any political
subdivision thereof or of any governmental instrumentality within the state; or
         (b)   Any person exercising the functions of any such public officer
or employee; or
         (c)   Any person participating as advisor, consultant or otherwise in
performing a governmental function, but not including witnesses; or
         (d)   Any person elected, appointed or designated to become a public
servant although not yet occupying that position.
   (B)   Obstruction of governmental operations.
      (1)   A person is guilty of obstructing governmental operations when he
or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders the performance of a
governmental function by using or threatening to use violence, force or
physical interference.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Any means of avoiding compliance with the law without
affirmative interference with governmental functions; or
         (b)   The obstruction, impairment or hindrance of unlawful action by a
public servant.
   (C)   Promoting contraband in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of promoting contraband in the second degree
when:
         (a)   He or she knowingly introduces contraband into a detention
facility; or
         (b)   Being a person confined in a detention facility, he or she
knowingly makes, obtains or possesses contraband.
      (2)   Promoting contraband in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 520.060)
   (D)   Bail jumping in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of bail jumping in the second degree when,
having been released from custody by court order, with or without bail, upon
condition that he or she will subsequently appear at a specified time and place
in connection with a charge of having committed a misdemeanor, he or she
intentionally fails to appear at that time and place.
      (2)   In any prosecution for bail jumping, the defendant may prove in
exculpation that his or her failure to appear was unavoidable and due to
circumstances beyond, his or her control.
      (3)   Bail jumping in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 520.080)
   (E)   Resisting arrest.
      (1)   A person is guilty of resisting arrest when he or she intentionally
prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer, recognized to be acting under
color of his or her official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor
or another by:
         (a)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against
the peace officer or another; or
         (b)   Using any other means creating a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to an peace officer or another.
   (F)   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle.
      (1)   A person is guilty of resisting an order to stop a motor vehicle
when he or she knowingly fails to obey a recognized direction to stop his or
her vehicle, given by a person recognized to be a peace officer.
      (2)   No offense is committed under this section when the conduct
involved constitutes a failure to comply with a directive if a traffic control
officer.
      (3)   Resisting an order to stop a motor vehicle is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(KRS 520.100)
   (G)   Hindering prosecution or apprehension in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of hindering prosecution or apprehension in the
second degree, when with the intent to hinder the apprehension, prosecution,
conviction or punishment of another who is being sought in connection with the
commission of a criminal offense of lesser degree than a capital offense or
Class A felony, he or she renders assistance to such person.
(KRS 520.120 and 520.130)
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a person renders assistance when
he or she:
         (a)   Harbors or conceals such person;
         (b)   Warns such person of impending discovery or apprehension, except
that this does not apply to a warning given in connection with an effort to
bring another into compliance with law;
         (c)   Provides such person with money, transportation, weapon,
disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
         (d)   Prevents or obstructs, by means of force, or intimidation,
anyone from performing an act that might aid in the discovery or apprehension
of such person;
         (e)   Volunteers false information to a law enforcement officer; or
         (f)   Suppresses by an act of concealment, alteration or destruction
any physical evidence that might aid in the discovery or apprehension of such
person.
      (3)   In any prosecution for hindering prosecution or apprehension it is
a defense that the accused is the spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent or grandchild of the person whose discovery or apprehension he or
she sought to prevent.
(KRS 520.110)
      (4)   Hindering prosecution or apprehension in the second degree is a
Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 5 20.130)
(1980 Code, § 1020.8)
§ 130.11 RIOTS AND DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definitions pertaining to riot and disorderly conduct. For the purpose
of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESECRATE. Defacing, damaging, polluting or otherwise physically
mistreating in a way that the actor knows will outrage the sensibilities of
persons likely to observe or discover his or her action.
      PUBLIC. Affecting or likely to affect a substantial group of persons.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access and includes but is not limited to highways, transportation
facilities, schools, places of amusements, parks, places of business,
playgrounds and hallways, lobbies and other portions of apartment houses and
hotels not constituting rooms or apartments designed for actual residence. An
act is deemed to occur in a PUBLIC PLACE if it produces its offensive or
proscribed consequences in a public place.
      RIOT. A public disturbance involving an assemblage of five or more
persons which by tumultuous and violent conduct creates grave danger of damage
or injury to property or persons or substantially obstructs law enforcement or
other government function.
(KRS 525.010)
      TRANSPORTATION FACILITY. Any conveyance, premises or place used for or in
connection with public passenger transportation by air, railroad, motor vehicle
or any other method. It includes aircraft, watercraft, railroad cars, buses and
air, boat, railroad and bus terminals and stations and all appurtenances
thereto.
   (B)   Riot in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of riot in the second degree when he or she
knowingly participates in a riot.
      (2)   Riot in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.030)
   (C)   Inciting a riot.
      (1)   A person is guilty of inciting to riot when he or she incites or
urges 5 or more people to create or engage in a riot.
      (2)   Inciting a riot is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.040)
   (D)   Unlawful assembly.
      (1)   A person is guilty of unlawful assembly when:
         (a)   He or she assembles with five or more persons for the purpose of
engaging or preparing to engage with them in a riot; or
         (b)   Being present at an assembly which either has or develops such a
purpose, he or she remains there with intent to advance that purpose.
      (2)   Unlawful assembly is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.050)
   (E)   Disorderly conduct.
      (1)   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct when in a public place and
with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, wantonly
creating a risk thereof, he or she:
         (a)   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
         (b)   Makes unreasonable noise;
         (c)   Refuses to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency; or
         (d)   Creates a hazard or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.060)
   (F)   Harassment.
      (1)   A person is guilty of harassment when with intent to harass, annoy
or alarm another person he or she:
         (a)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise subjects him to physical
contact or attempts or threatens to do the same;
         (b)   In a public place, makes an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or addresses abusive language to any person present;
         (c)   Follows a person in or about a public place or places; or
         (d)   Engages in a course of conduct or repeatedly commits acts which
alarm or seriously annoy such other person and which serve no legitimate
purpose.
      (2)   Harassment is a violation.
(KRS 525.070)
   (G)   Harassing communications.
      (1)   A person is guilty of harassing communications when with intent to
harass, annoy or alarm another person he or she:
         (a)   Communicates with a person, anonymously or otherwise, by
telephone, telegraph, mail or any other form of electronic or written
communication in a manner which causes annoyance or alarm and serves no purpose
of legitimate communication; or
         (b)   Makes a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
no purpose of legitimate communication.
      (2)   Harassing communications is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.080)
   (H)   Loitering.
      (1)   A person is guilty of loitering when the person:
         (a)   Loiters or remains in a public place for the purpose of gambling
with cards, dice or other gambling paraphernalia, except that the provisions of
this section shall not apply if the person is participating in charitable
gaming defined by KRS 238.505, or is engaged in sports wagering licensed under
KRS Chapter 230;
         (b)   Loiters or remains in a public place for the purpose of engaging
or agreeing or offering to engage in prostitution;
         (c)   Loiters or remains in a public place for the purpose of
unlawfully using a controlled substance;
         (d)   Loiters or remains in or about a school, college or university
building or grounds, not having any reason or relationship involving custody of
or responsibility for a pupil or student or any other specific legitimate
reason for being there and not having written permission from anyone authorized
to grant the same; or
         (e)   Loiters or remains in any transportation facility, unless
specifically authorized to do so, for the purpose of soliciting or engaging in
any business, trade or commercial transactions involving the sale of
merchandise or services.
      (2)   Loitering is a violation.
(KRS 5 25.090)
   (I)   Public intoxication.
      (1)   A person is guilty of public intoxication when he or she appears in
a public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol, or a controlled
substance, or other intoxicating substance, not therapeutically administered,
to the degree that he or she may endanger himself or herself or other persons
in his or her vicinity.
      (2)   Public intoxication is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.100)
   (J)   Desecration of venerated objects.
      (1)   A person is guilty of desecration of venerated objects when he or
she intentionally:
         (a)   Desecrates any public monument or object or place of worship or
burial; or
         (b)   Desecrates in a public place the national or state flag or other
patriotic or religious symbol which is an object of veneration by the public or
a substantial segment thereof.
      (2)   Desecration of venerated objects is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.110)
   (K)   Obstructing a highway or other public passage.
      (1)   A person is guilty of obstructing a highway or other public passage
when having no legal privilege to do so he, alone or with other persons,
intentionally or wantonly renders any highway or public passage impassable
without unreasonable inconvenience or hazard.
      (2)   No person shall be convicted under this section solely because of a
gathering of persons to hear him speak or otherwise communicate or solely
because of being a member of such a gathering.
      (3)   An order to disperse issued by a peace officer or other public
servant engaged in executing or enforcing the law and addressed to a person
whose speech or other lawful behavior attracts an obstructing audience shall
not be deemed lawful if the obstruction can be readily remedied by police
control of the size or location of the gathering.
      (4)   Obstructing a highway or other public passage is a Class B
misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.140)
   (L)   Disrupting meetings.
      (1)   A person is guilty of disrupting meetings and processions when with
intent to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting, procession or gathering, he or
she does any act tending to obstruct or interfere with it physically or makes
any utterance, gesture or display designed to outrage the sensibilities of the
group.
      (2)   Disrupting meetings and processions is a Class S misdemeanor.
(KRS 525.150)
(1980 Code, § 1020.11)
§ 130.12 EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Definition pertaining to eavesdropping. For the purpose of this
section, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EAVESDROPPING. To overhear, record, amplify or transmit any part of a
wire or oral communication of others without the consent of at least one party
thereto by means of any electronic, mechanical or other device.
(KRS 526.010)
   (B)   General provisions pertaining to eavesdropping.
      (1)   A person is not guilty under this section when he or she:
         (a)   Inadvertently overhears the communication through a regularly
installed telephone party line or on a telephone extension but does not divulge
it; or
         (b)   Is an employee of a communications common carrier who, while
acting in the course of his or her employment, intercepts, discloses or uses a
communication transmitted through the facilities of his or her employer for a
purpose which is a necessary incident to the rendition of the service or to be
the protection of the rights of the property of the carrier of such
communication; provided however that communications common carriers shall not
utilize service observing or ransom monitoring except for mechanical or service
quality control checks transmitted through the facilities of his or her
employer but does not divulge it.
(KRS 526.070)
      (2)   Any electronic, mechanical or other device designed or commonly
used for eavesdropping which is possessed or used in violation of this section,
is forfeited to the state and shall be disposed of in accordance with KRS
500.090.
(KRS 526.080)
   (C)   Possession of an eavesdropping device.
      (1)   A person is guilty of possession of an eavesdropping device when he
or she possesses any electronic, mechanical or other device designed or
commonly used for eavesdropping with intent to use that device to eavesdrop or
knowing that another intends to use that device to eavesdrop.
      (2)   Possession of an eavesdropping device is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 5 26.040)
   (D)   Tampering with private communications.
      (1)   A person is guilty of tampering with private communications when
knowing that he or she does not have to consent of the sender or receiver, he
or she unlawfully:
         (a)   Opens or reads a sealed letter or other sealed private
communication; or
         (b)   Obtains in any manner from an employee, officer or
representative of a communications common carrier information with respect to
the contents or nature of a communication.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the censoring of
sealed letters or sealed communications for security purposes in official
detention or penal facilities.
      (3)   Tampering with private communications is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 526.030)
   (E)   Divulging illegally obtained information.
      (1)   A person is guilty of divulging illegally obtained information when
he or she knowingly uses or divulges information contained through
eavesdropping or tampering with private communications or learned in the course
of employment with a communications common carrier engaged in transmitting the
message.
      (2)   Divulging illegally obtained information is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 526.060)
(1980 Code, § 1020.12)
§ 130.13 FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Definitions pertaining to forgery and related offenses. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COIN MACHINE. A coin box, turnstile, vending machine or other mechanical
or electronic device or receptacle designed:
         (a)   To receive a coin or bill or token made for the purpose; and
         (b)   In return for the insertion or deposit thereof, automatically to
offer, provide, assist in providing or permit the acquisition of property or
service.
      FALSELY ALTER A WRITTEN INSTRUMENT. To change, without the authority of
anyone entitled to grant it, a written instrument, whether ir be in complete or
incomplete form, by means of erasure, obliteration, deletion, insertion of new
matter, transposition of matter or in any other manner, so that such instrument
in its thus altered form appears or purports to be in all respects an authentic
creation of or fully authorized by its ostensible maker or drawer.
      FALSELY COMPLETE A WRITTEN INSTRUMENT. To transform, by adding, inserting
or changing matter, an incomplete written instrument into a complete one,
without the authority of anyone entitled to grant it, so that the complete
instrument appears or purports to be in all respects an authentic creation of
or fully authorized by its ostensible maker or drawer.
      FALSELY MAKE A WRITTEN INSTRUMENT. To make or draw a complete written
instrument in its entirety or an incomplete written instrument, which purports
to be an authentic creation of its ostensible maker or drawer, but which is not
either because the ostensible maker or drawer is fictitious or because, of
real, he or she did not authorize the making or drawing thereof.
      FORGED INSTRUMENT. A written instrument which has been falsely made,
completed or altered.
      SLUG. An object or article which by virtue of its size, shape or any
other quality is capable of being inserted, deposited or otherwise used in a
coin machine as an improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token.
      VALUE OF THE SLUG. The value of the coin, bill or token for which it is
capable of being substituted.
      WRITTEN INSTRUMENT. Any instrument or article containing written or
printed matter or its equivalent used for the purpose of reciting, embodying,
conveying or recording information, or constituting a symbol or evidence of
value, right, privilege or identification, which is capable of being used to
the advantage or disadvantage of some person.
(KRS 516.010)
   (B)   General provision pertaining to forgery and related offenses. A person
may not be convicted of both forgery and criminal possession of a forged
instrument with respect to the same instrument.
(KRS 516.080)
   (C)   Forgery in the third degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of forgery in the third degree when, with intent
to defraud, deceive or injure another, he or she falsely makes, completes or
alters a written instrument except as provided in KRS 516.020(1)(a) and (b),
and KRS 516.030(1)(a), (b) and (c).
      (2)   Forgery in the third degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 516.040)
   (D)   Criminal possession of forged instrument in the third degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of criminal possession of a forged instrument in
the third degree when with knowledge that it is forged and with intent to
defraud, deceive or injure another, he or she utters or possesses forged
instrument of a kind not specified in KRS 516.020 and KRS 516.030.
      (2)   Criminal possession of a forged instrument in the third degree is a
Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 516.070)
   (E)   Criminal simulation.
      (1)   A person is guilty of criminal simulation when:
         (a)   With intent to defraud, he or she makes or alters any object in
such a manner that it appears to have an antiquity, rarity, source or
authorship which it does not in fact possess; or
         (b)   With knowledge of its character and with intent to defraud, he
or she possesses and object so simulated.
      (2)   Criminal simulation is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 516.110)
   (F)   Using slugs in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of unlawfully using slugs in the second degree
when:
         (a)   With intent to defraud the owner, licensee or lessee of a coin
machine, he or she inserts, deposits or uses a slug in such machine; or
         (b)   He or she makes, possesses or disposes of a slug with intent to
enable a person to insert, deposit or use it in a coin machine; and
         (c)   The value of such slug is under $100.
      (2)   Unlawfully using slugs in the second degree is a Class B
misdemeanor.
(KRS 516.130)
(1980 Code, § 1020.6)
ESCAPE AND OTHER OFFENSES RELATING TO CUSTODY.
§ 130.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any article or thing which a person confined in a detention
facility is prohibited from obtaining or possessing by statute, departmental
regulation, or posted institutional rule or order.
   CUSTODY. Restraint by a public servant pursuant to a lawful arrest,
detention, or an order of court for lav; enforcement purposes, but foes not
include supervision of probation or parole or constraint incidental to release
on bail.
   DANGEROUS CONTRABAND. Contraband which is capable of such use as may
endanger the safety or security of a detention facility or persons therein.
   DETENTION FACILITY. w Any place used for the confinement of a person;
      (1)   Charged with or convicted of an offense;
      (2)   Alleged or found to be delinquent;
      (3)   Held for extradition or as a material witness; or
      (4)   Otherwise confined pursuant to an order of court for lawful
enforcement purposes.
   ESCAPE. Departure from custody or the detention facility in which a person
is held or detained with knowledge that such departure is unpermitted, or
failure to return to custody or detention following a temporary leave granted
for a specific purpose or for a limited period.
(KRS 520.010)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-1)
§ 130.26 ESCAPE IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of escape in the third degree when he or she
escapes from custody.
   (B) Escape in the third degree is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 520.040)
   (C)   Obstructing governmental operations is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 519.020)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-2)
§ 130.27 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   A person is guilty of compounding a crime when:
      (1)   He or she solicits, accepts or agrees to accept any benefit upon an
agreement or understanding that he or she will refrain from initiating a
prosecution for a crime; or
      (2)   He or she confers, offers or agrees to confer any benefit upon
another person upon agreement or understanding that such other person will
refrain from initiating a prosecution for a crime.
   (B)   In any prosecution under this section, it is a defense that the
benefit did not exceed an amount which the defendant reasonably believed to be
due as restitution or indemnification for harm caused by the offense.
   (C)   Compounding a crime is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 519.030)
§ 130.28 FALSELY REPORTING AN INCIDENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of falsely reporting an incident when the person:
      (1)   Knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, official or volunteer, that deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property, and the false report
results in an emergency response;
      (2)   Reports to law enforcement authorities with information allegedly
relating to an offense or incident within their official concern knowing that
it did not occur;
      (3)   Furnishes law enforcement authorities with information allegedly
relating to an offense or incident within their official concern when the
person knows he or she has no information relating to such offense or incident;
      (4)   Knowingly gives false information to any law enforcement officer
with intent to implicate another; or
      (5)   Initiates or circulates a report, or warning of an alleged
occurrence or impending occurrence of a fire or other emergency under
circumstances likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm when the person
knows the information reported, conveyed or circulated is false or baseless,
and the false report results in an emergency response.
   (B)   (1)   Falsely reporting an incident under divisions (A)(2), (3), or
(4) of this section is a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   Falsely reporting an incident under divisions (A)(1) or (5) of this
section is a Class D felony.
   (C)   Any violation under this section may be prosecuted in any county
where:
      (1)   The defendant resides;
      (2)   The false report was communicated; or
      (3)   There was an emergency response to the false report.
   (D)   (1)   The court, in imposing a sentence on a defendant who has been
convicted of any offense under this section, shall order restitution to:
         (a)   Any agency or organization for the reasonable costs of the
emergency response incurred by that agency or organization resulting from the
false report; and
         (b)   Any person who suffered damages caused by the agency or
organization that provided an emergency response.
      (2)   An order of restitution under this section shall, for the purpose
of enforcement, be treated as a civil judgement.
(KRS 519.040)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-4)
§ 130.29 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of impersonating a public servant if he or she
pretends to be a public servant with intent to induce another to submit to such
pretended official authority or otherwise to act in reliance upon that pretense
to his or her prejudice.
   (B)   Impersonating a public servant is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 50.9.050)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-5)
§ 130.30 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of tampering with public records when:
      (1)   He or she knowingly makes a false entry in or falsely alters any
public record;
      (2)   Knowing he or she lacks the authority to do so, he or she
intentionally destroys, mutilates, conceals, removes or otherwise impairs the
availability of any public records; or
      (3)   Knowing he or she lacks the authority to retain it, he or she
refuses to deliver up a public record in his or her possession upon proper
request of a public servant lawfully entitled to receive such record for
examination or other purposes.
   (B)   Tampering with public records is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 519.060)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-6)
§ 130.31 SOLICITING UNLAWFUL COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A public servant is guilty of soliciting unlawful compensation when he
or she requests a pecuniary benefit for the performance of an official action
knowing that he or she was required to perform that action without compensation
or at a level of compensation lower than requested.
   (B)   Solicitation of unlawful compensation is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 521.030)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-7)
§ 130.32 RECEIVING UNLAWFUL COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of unlawful compensation for assistance in public
matters when:
      (1)   While a public servant, he or she solicits, accepts or agrees to
accept compensation for advice or other assistance in preparing a bill,
contract, claim or other transaction or proposal as to which he or she knows
that he or she is likely to have an official discretion to exercise; or
      (2)   He or she offers, pays or agrees to pay compensation to a public
servant for advice or other assistance in preparing or promoting a bill,
contract, claim or other transaction with knowledge that acceptance by the
public servant is unlawful.
   (B)   Unlawful compensation for assistance in public matters is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(KRS 521.040)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-8)
§ 130.33 OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT IN THE FIRST DEGREE.
   (A)   A public servant is guilty of official misconduct in the first degree
when, with intent to obtain or confer a benefit or to injure another person or
to deprive another person of a benefit, he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Commits an act relating to his or her office which constitutes an
unauthorized exercise of his or her official functions;
      (2)   Refrains from performing a duty imposed upon him or her by law or
clearly inherent in the nature of his or her office; or
      (3)   Violates any statute or lawfully adopted rule or regulation
relating to his or her office.
   (B)   Official misconduct in the first degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 522.020)
§ 130.34 OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A public servant is guilty of official misconduct in the second degree
when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Commits an act relating to his or her office which constitutes an
unauthorized exercise of his or her official functions;
      (2)   Refrains from performing a duty imposed upon him or her by law or
clearly inherent in the nature of his or her office; or
      (3)   Violates any statute or lawfully adopted rule or regulation
relating to his or her office.
   (B)   Official misconduct in the second degree is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS (522.030)
(1980 Code, § 1020.9-10)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or violation
shall be imprisoned for a definite term, or fined, or both, which term of
imprisonment and a-mount of fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in
this section.
   (B)   Terms of imprisonment for misdemeanors shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, not more than 12 months; and
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, not more than 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
   (C)   Fines for misdemeanors and violations shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, not more than $500;
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, not more than $250;
      (3)   For a violation, not more than $250; and
      (4)   This paragraph does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
(1980 Code, § 1030.3)
   (D)   Violators of §
130.04 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $25.
The continuance of the storage for 12 consecutive hours shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1980 Code, § 1020.20-2)
   (E)   Any person violating §
130.05 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or mere than $100 for
each offense.
(1980 Code, § 1020.20-4)
   (F)   Any person who violates §
130.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $100 for each offense.
(1980 Code, § 1020.20-5)
   (G)   Any person, firm, business, partnership or corporation that violates
any provision of §
130.07 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200.
   (H)   Any person who violates §
130.08(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined no less than $50
nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned for no longer than 50 days.
(Ord. 1020.21, passed 12-16-1981; Ord. 1020.30-5-2011, passed 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 131: BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL OFFENSES
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Deceptive business practices
   
131.03   False advertising
   
131.04   Bait advertising
   
131.05   Falsifying business records
   
131.06   Defrauding secured creditors
   
131.07   Defrauding judgment creditors
   
131.08   Fraud in insolvency
   
131.09   Issuing false financial statement
   
131.10   Misapplication of entrusted property
   
131.11   Commercial bribery
   
131.12   Receiving a commercial bribe
   
131.13   Tampering with or rigging sports contest
   
131.14   Ticket scalping
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED. Varying from the standard of composition or quality prescribed
by statute or lawfully promulgated administrative regulation or, if none, as
set by established commercial usage.
   BENEFIT. Gain or advantage to the beneficiary or to a third person pursuant
to the desire or consent of the beneficiary.
   BUSINESS RECORD. Any writing or article kept or maintained by an enterprise
for the purpose of evidencing or reflecting its condition or activity.
   ENTERPRISE. Any entity of one or more persons, corporate or otherwise,
public or private, engaged in business, commercial, professional, industrial,
eleemosynary, social, political or governmental activity.
   EVENT. A sports contest to which the general public is not admitted without
consideration.
   FIDUCIARY. A trustee, guardian, executor, administrator, receiver and any
person carrying on fiduciary functions on behalf of a corporation or other
organization which is fiduciary.
   MISLABELED.
      (1)   Varying from the standard of truth or disclosure in labeling
prescribed by statute or lawfully promulgated administrative regulation or, if
none, as set by established commercial usage; or
      (2)   Represented as being another person’s product, though otherwise
labeled accurately as to quality or quantity.
(KRS 517.010)
   SPORTS CONTEST. Any professional or amateur sport, athletic game or contest,
or race or contest involving machines, persons or animals that is viewed by the
public.
   SPORTS OFFICIAL. Any person who acts or expects to act in a sports contest
as an umpire, referee or judge, or otherwise to officiate at a sports contest.
   SPORTS PARTICIPANT. Any person who participates or expects to participate in
a sports contest as a player, contestant or member of a team, or as a coach,
manager, trainer or other person directly associated with a player, contestant
or team.
(KRS 518.010) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-1)
§ 131.02 DECEPTIVE BUSINESS PRACTICES.
   (A)   A person is guilty of deceptive business practices when, in the course
of engaging in a business, occupation or profession, he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Uses or possesses for use a false weight or measure or any other
device for falsely determining or recording any quality or quantity;
      (2)   Sells, offers or exposes for sale, or delivers less than the
represented quantity of any commodity or service;
      (3)   Takes or attempts to take more than the represented quantity of any
commodity, thing or service when as a buyer, agency or receiver he or she
furnishes the weight, measure or weighing or measuring device by means of which
the amount of the commodity, thing or service is determined;
      (4)   Sells, offers or exposes for sale adulterated commodities; or
      (5)   Sells, offers or exposes for sale mislabeled commodities.
   (B)   Deceptive business practices is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.020) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-2)
§ 131.03 FALSE ADVERTISING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of false advertising when, in connection with the
promotion of the sale of or to increase the consumption of property or
services, he or she knowingly makes or causes to be made a false or misleading
statement in any advertisement addressed to the public or to a substantial
number of persons.
   (B)   False advertising is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-3)
§ 131.04 BAIT ADVERTISING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of bait advertising when in any manner, including
advertising or other means of communication, he or she offers to the public or
a substantial number of persons, property or services as part of a scheme or
plan with the intent not to sell or provide the advertised property or
services:
      (1)   At the price at which he or she offered them;
      (2)   In a quantity sufficient to meet the reasonably expected public
demand, unless the quantity is specifically stated in the advertisement; or
      (3)   At all.
   (B)   Bait advertising is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.040) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-4)
§ 131.05 FALSIFYING BUSINESS RECORDS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of falsifying business records when, with intent to
defraud, he or she:
      (1)   Makes or causes a false entry to be made in the business records of
an enterprise;
      (2)   Alters, erases, obliterates, deletes, removes or destroys a true
entry in the business records of an enterprise;
      (3)   Omits to make a true entry in the business records of an enterprise
in violation of a duty to do so which he or she knows to be imposed upon him by
law or by the nature of his or her position; or
      (4)   Prevents the making of a true entry or causes the omission thereof
in the business records of an enterprise.
   (B)   Falsifying business records is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-5)
§ 131.06 DEFRAUDING SECURED CREDITORS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of defrauding secured creditors when he or she
destroys, removes, conceals, encumbers, transfers or otherwise deals with
property subject to a security interest with intent unlawfully to hinder
enforcement of that interest.
   (B)   Defrauding secured creditors is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-6)
§ 131.07 DEFRAUDING JUDGMENT CREDITORS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of defrauding judgment creditors when he or she
secretes, assigns, conveys or otherwise disposes of his or her property with
intent to defraud a judgment creditor or to prevent that property from being
subjected to payment of a judgment.
   (B)   Defrauding judgment creditors is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-7)
§ 131.08 FRAUD IN INSOLVENCY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of fraud in insolvency when, knowing that
proceedings have been or are about to be instituted for the appointment of a
receiver or other person entitled to administer property for the benefit of
creditors, or that any other composition or liquidation for the benefit of
creditors has been or is about to be made, he or she:
      (1)   Destroys, removes, conceals, encumbers, transfers or otherwise
deals with any property with intent to defeat or obstruct the claim of any
creditor, or otherwise to obstruct the operation of any lav; relating to
administration of property for the benefit of creditors;
      (2)   Knowingly falsifies any writing or record relating to the property;
or
      (3)   Knowingly misrepresents or refuses to disclose to a receiver or
other person entitled to administer property for the benefit of creditors, the
existence, amount or location of the property, or any other information which
the actor would be legally required to furnish to such administrator.
   (B)   Fraud in insolvency is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-8)
§ 131.09 ISSUING FALSE FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of issuing a false financial statement when, with
intent to defraud, he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly makes or utters a written instrument which purports to
describe the financial condition or ability to pay of himself or of some other
person and which is inaccurate in some material respect; or
      (2)   Represents in writing that a written instrument purporting to
describe a person’s financial condition or ability to pay as of a prior date is
accurate with respect to that person’s financial condition or ability to pay,
knowing the instrument to be materially inaccurate in that respect.
   (B)   Issuing a false financial statement is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.090) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-9)
§ 131.10 MISAPPLICATION OF ENTRUSTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of misapplication of entrusted property when he or
she applies or disposes of property that has been entrusted to him as a
fiduciary, or property of the government or of a financial institution in a
manner which he or she knows is unauthorized and involves substantial risk of
loss or detriment to the owner of the property or to a person for whose benefit
the property was entrusted.
   (B)   Misapplication of entrusted property is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 517.110) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-10)
§ 131.11 COMMERCIAL BRIBERY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of commercial bribery when he or she:
      (1)   Offers, confers or agrees to confer any benefit upon any employee
or agent without the consent of the latter’s employer or principal with intent
to influence his or her conduct contrary to his or her employer’s or
principal’s best interests; or
      (2)   Offers, confers or agrees to confer any benefit upon any fiduciary
without the consent of the latter’s beneficiary with intent to influence him or
her to act or conduct himself or herself contrary to his or her fiduciary
obligation.
   (B)   Commercial bribery is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 518.020) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-11)
§ 131.12 RECEIVING A COMMERCIAL BRIBE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of receiving a commercial bribe when:
      (1)   As an employer or agent, and without the consent of his or her
employer or principal, he or she knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to
accept any benefit from another person upon an agreement or understanding that
the benefit will influence his or her conduct contrary to his or her employer’s
or principal’s best interest; or
      (2)   As a fiduciary, and without the consent of his or her beneficiary,
he or she knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to accept any benefit from
another person upon an agreement or understanding that the benefit will
influence his or her conduct contrary to his or her fiduciary obligation.
   (B)   Receiving a commercial bribe is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 518.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-12)
§ 131.13 TAMPERING WITH OR RIGGING SPORTS CONTEST.
   (A)   A person is guilty of tampering with or rigging a sports contest when,
with intent to influence the outcome of a sports contest, he or she:
      (1)   Tampers with any sports participant or sports official or with any
animal, equipment or other thing involved in the conduct or operation of a
sports contest in a manner contrary to the rules governing the sports contest
in question; or
      (2)   Substitutes a sports participant, animal, other than a horse,
equipment or other thing involved in the conduct or operation of a sports
contest for the genuine person, animal or thing.
   (B)   Tampering with or rigging a sports contest is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 518.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-13)
§ 131.14 TICKET SCALPING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of ticket scalping when he or she intentionally
sells or offers to sell a ticket to an event at a price greater than that
charged at the place of admission or printed on the ticket, unless authorized
by the issuer or by law.
   (B)   Ticket scalping is a violation.
(KRS 518.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.7-14)
CHAPTER 132: DRUGS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
132.01   Findings and policy
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Possession
   
132.04   Trafficking
   
132.05   Applicability of state law
   
132.06   Prohibition of all cannabis business operations
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 FINDINGS AND POLICY.
   (A)   The City Commission finds that herbal incense products marketed in the
United States that provide a marijuana-like high when smoked have become
increasingly popular, particularly among teens and young adults and that these
products consist of plant material that has been laced with chemicals that have
not been approved by the FDA for human consumption.
   (B)   (1)   The City Commission further finds that the commonwealth has
moved to prohibit the sale and possession of similar products, but the changing
nature of the products has resulted in the availability of herbal incense
products that exceed the commonwealth’s definition and statutes and therefore
are not properly regulated by the commonwealth.
      (2)   The City Commission is aware that the side effects of the
unregulated herbal incense products pose a threat to the public health and
safety of the citizens of the city and it is in the best interests of the city
to regulate the sale and use of such products.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AM CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including but not limited to
AM-087; AM-251; AM-281; AM-356; AM-374; AM-381; AM-404; AM-4I1; AM-630; AM-661;
AM-678; AM-679; AM-694; AM-855; AM-881; AM-883; AM-905; AM-906; AM-919; AM-926;
AM-938; AM-1116; AM-1172; AM-1220; AM-1221; AM-1235; AM-1241; AM-1248; AM-2201;
AM-2212; AM-2213; AM-2232; AM-2233; AM-2102; AM-4030. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in accordance with
state and federal law.
   CP CANNABINOIDS. CP-47,497; (C6)-CP-47,497; (C7)-CP-47,497; (C8)-CP-47,497;
(C9)-CP-47,497; CP-50,556-1; CP-55,244; CP-55,940; CP-945,598. The term shall
not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   HU CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
HU-2I0; HU-211; HU-243; HU-308; HU-320; HU-331; HU-336; HU-345. The term shall
not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   JWH CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
JWH-007; JWH-015; JWH-018; JWH-019; JWH-030; JWH-047; JWH-048; JWH-051; JWH-
057; JWH-073; JWH-081; JWH-098; JWH-116; JWH-120; JWH-122; JWH-133; JWH-139;
JWH-147; JWH-148; JWH-149; JWH-161; JWH-164; JWH-166; JWH-167; JWH-I71; JWH-
175; JWH-176; JWH-181; JWH-182; JWH-184; JWH-185; JWH-192; JWH-193; JWH-194;
JWH-195; JWH-196; JWH-197; JWH-I98; JWH-199; JWH-200; JWH-203; JWH-205; JWH-
210; JWH-213; JWH-229; JWH-234; JWH-249; JWH-250; JWH-251; JWH-253; JWH-258;
JWH-300; JWH-302; JWH-307; JWH-336; JWH-350; JWH-359; JWH-387; JWH-398; JWH-
424. The term shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a
prescription, are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
and are dispensed in accordance with state and federal law.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, group, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, limited liability company or any other
business entity. For the purposes of this chapter, the president, managers,
owners, shareholders, partners, members or other persons in charge of the
business shall be responsible to require the business to comply with this
chapter and shall likewise be subject to the penalties imposed for violations
of this chapter by the business entity.
   POSSESSION. To have actual physical possession or otherwise to exercise
actual dominion or control over a tangible object.
   TRAFFIC. To manufacture, distribute, dispense, sell, transfer or possess
with intent to manufacture, distribute, dispense or sell a controlled
substance.
   TRANSFER. To dispose of a controlled substance to another person without
consideration and not in furtherance of commercial distribution.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 132.03 POSSESSION.
   A person is guilty of possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
possesses AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 TRAFFICKING.
   A person is guilty of trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
traffics in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   If current or future state law prohibits any substance(s) contained in this
chapter, the state law shall be applied instead of this chapter for both
prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 132.06 PROHIBITION OF ALL CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CABINET. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services.
      CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance facility.
      CULTIVATOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
      DISPENSARY. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
      MEDICINAL CANNABIS.
         (a)   Marijuana as defined in KRS 218A.010 when cultivated, harvested,
processed, produced, transported, dispensed, distributed, sold, possessed, or
used in accordance with this chapter;
         (b)   Includes medicinal cannabis products and raw plant material; and
         (c)   Does not include industrial hemp or industrial hemp products as
defined in KRS 260.850.
      PROCESSOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
      PRODUCER. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
      SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. An entity licensed as such under KRS
218B.080, 218B.085, and 218B.090.
   (B)   Cannabis businesses prohibited.
      (1)   All cannabis businesses are hereby prohibited from operating in the
corporate city limits of Franklin, Kentucky.
      (2)   CANNABIS BUSINESS means any entity licensed under KRS Chapter 218B
as a cultivator, dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance
facility.
(Ord. 2024-015, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter concerning
Possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $250 and jail time not to exceed 90 days.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter concerning
Trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and jail time not to exceed 12 months.
   (C)   Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense and no
additional notice other than notice of the original offense shall be required
to convict a person for multiple violations resulting from a continuation of
such offense.
(Ord. 350.00-01-12, passed 1-23-2012)
CHAPTER 133: FAMILY OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Concealing birth of infant
   
133.02   Non-support
   
133.03   Endangering welfare of minor
   
133.04   Unlawful transaction with minor
   
133.05   Endangering welfare of incompetent person
§ 133.01 CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of concealing the birth of an infant when he or she
conceals the corpse of a newborn child with intent to conceal the facts of its
birth or to prevent a determination of whether it was born dead or alive.
   (B)   Concealing the birth of an infant is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 530.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.15-1)
§ 133.02 NON-SUPPORT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of non-support when he or she persistently fails to
provide support which he or she can reasonably provide and which he or she
knows he or she has a duty to provide to a minor or incompetent child, indigent
spouse or indigent parent.
   (B)   A person has a duty to provide support for an indigent spouse and for
a minor or incompetent child and, for purposes of this section, is presumed to
know of that duty.
   (C)   Any person who is 18 years of age or over, residing in this state and
having in this state a parent who is destitute of means of subsistence and
unable because of old age, infirmity or illness to support himself or herself,
has a duty to provide support for such parent and, for purposes of this
section, is presumed to know of that duty.
   (D)   Non-support is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 530.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.15-2)
§ 133.03 ENDANGERING WELFARE OF MINOR.
   (A)   A parent, guardian or other person legally charged with the care or
custody of a minor is guilt of endangering the welfare of a minor when he or
she fails or refuses to exercise reasonable diligence in the control of such
child to prevent him or her from becoming a neglected dependent or delinquent
child.
   (B)   Endangering the welfare of a minor is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 530.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.15-3)
§ 133.04 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTION WITH MINOR.
   (A)   A person is guilty of unlawful transaction with a minor when:
      (1)   Acting other than as a retail licensee, he or she knowingly sells,
gives, purchases or procures any alcoholic or malt beverage in any form to or
for a minor. The defendant may prove in exculpation that the sale was induced
by the use of false, fraudulent or altered identification papers or other
documents and that the appearance and character of the purchaser were such that
his or her age could not have been ascertained by any other means and that the
purchaser’s appearance and character indicated strongly that he or she was of
legal age to purchase alcoholic beverages. This section does not apply to a
parent or guardian of the minor;
      (2)   He or she knowingly induces, assists or causes a minor to engage in
illegal sexual activity, illegal controlled substances activity, illegal
gambling activity or any other criminal activity;
      (3)   He or she knowingly induces, assists or causes a minor to become a
habitual truant; or
      (4)   He or she persistently and knowingly induces, assists or causes a
minor to disobey his parent or guardian.
   (B)   Unlawful transaction with a minor is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 530.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.15-4)
§ 133.05 ENDANGERING WELFARE OF INCOMPETENT PERSON.
   (A)   A person is guilty of endangering the welfare of an incompetent person
when he or she knowingly acts in a manner which results in an injury to the
physical or mental welfare of a person who is unable to care for himself or
herself because of mental disease or defect.
   (B)   Endangering the welfare of an incompetent person is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(KRS 530.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.15-5)
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   General provisions
   
134.03   Promoting gambling in the second degree
   
134.04   Possession of gambling records in the second degree
   
134.05   Permitting gambling
   
134.06   Possession of gambling device
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCING GAMBLING ACTIVITY. A person “advances gambling activity” when,
acting other than as a player, he or she engages in conduct that materially
aids any form of gambling activity. Such conduct includes but is not limited to
conduct directed toward the establishment of the particular game, contest,
scheme, device or activity involved; toward the acquisition or maintenance of
premises, paraphernalia, equipment or apparatus therefor; toward the
solicitation or inducement of persons to participate therein; toward the actual
conduct of the playing phases thereof; toward the arrangement of any of it
financial or recording phases or toward any other phase of its operation. A
person who gambles at a social game of chance on equal terms with other
participants does not otherwise ADVANCE GAMBLING ACTIVITY by performing acts,
without remuneration or fee, directed toward the arrangement of facilitation of
the game as inviting persons to play, permitting the use of premises therefor
and supplying equipment used therein.
   BOOKMAKING. Advancing gambling activity by unlawfully accepting bets upon
the outcome of future contingent events from members of the public business.
   GAMBLING.  
      (1)   Staking or risking something of value upon the outcome of a
contest, game, gaming scheme or gaming device which is based upon an element of
chance, in accord with an agreement or understanding that someone will receive
something of value in the event of a certain outcome. GAMBLING includes playing
or offering for play any game, contest, or competition utilizing a gambling
device.
      (2)   GAMBLING does not include:
         (a)   A contest or game in which eligibility to participate is
determined by chance and the ultimate winner is determined by skill;
         (b)   Charitable gaming which is licensed and regulated under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 238;
         (c)   E-sports competitions;
         (d)   Skill-based contests; or
         (e)   The use or operation of any devices or machines that are
described in division (2) of the GAMBLING DEVICE definition.
   GAMBLING DEVICE.
      (1)   (a)   Any so-called slot machine or any other machine or mechanical
device which when operated may deliver, as a result of the application of any
element of chance, any money or property, or by the operation of which a person
may become entitled to receive, as the result of the application of any element
of chance, any money or property.
         (b)   Any mechanical or electric device permanently located in a
business establishment, including a private club, that is offered or made
available to a person to play or participate in a simulated gambling program in
return for direct or indirect consideration, including but not limited to
consideration paid for internet access or computer time, or a sweepstakes
entry, which when operated may deliver as a result of the application of any
element of chance, regardless of whether the result is also partially or
predominantly based on skill, any money or property, or by the operation of
which a person may become entitled to receive, as the result of the application
of any element of chance, regardless of whether the result is also partially or
predominantly based on skill, any money, or property.
         (c)   Any other machine or any mechanical, electronic, or other device
(including but not limited to roulette wheels, gambling tables and similar
devices) designated and manufactured primarily for the use in connection with
gambling and which when operated may deliver, as the result of the application
of any element of chance, any money or property, or by the operation of which a
person may become entitled to receive, as the result of the application of any
element of chance, any money or property.
         (d)   Any electronic, computerized, or mechanical contrivance,
terminal, machine, or other device that:
            1.   Requires the direct or indirect payment of consideration which
may include and shall not be limited to the insertion of a coin, currency,
ticket, token, or similar object, or be depositing funds with the operator or
owner of the device, to operate, play, or activate a game; and
            2.   Offers games the outcomes of which are determined by any
element of skill of the player and may deliver or entitle the person playing or
operating the device to receive cash, cash equivalents, or gift cards or
vouchers, billets, tickets, tokens, or electronic credits to be exchanged for
cash or to receive merchandise or something of value, whether the payoff is
made automatically from the device or manually.
      (2)   But, the following are not to be considered GAMBLING DEVICES within
this definition:
         (a)   Devices dispensing or selling combination or French pools on
licensed, regular racetracks during races on said tracks.
         (b)   Devices dispensing or selling combination or French Pools on
historical races at licensed, regular racetracks as lawfully authorized by the
Kentucky Horse Racing and Gaming Corporation.
         (c)   Electro-mechanical pinball machines specially designed,
constructed, set up and kept to be played for amusement only; provided any such
pinball machine shall be made to receive and react to the deposit of one five
or ten cent coin and no more during the course of a game; provided the ultimate
and only award given directly or indirectly to any player for the attainment of
a winning score or combination on any such pinball machine shall be the right
to play one or more additional games immediately on the same device at no
further cost; provided the maximum number of free games that can be won,
registered, or accumulated at one time in operation of any such, pinball
machine shall not exceed 30 free games; provided any such pinball machine shall
be made to discharge accumulated free games only by reactivating the playing
mechanism once for each game released; and provided any such pinball machine
shall be made and kept with no meter or system to preserve a record of free
games played, awarded or dis-charged. Nonetheless, a pinball machine shall be a
gambling device if a person gives or promises to give money, tokens,
merchandise, premiums or property of any kind for scores, combinations or free
games obtained in playing such pinball machine in which such person has an
interest as owner, operator, keeper or otherwise.
         (d)   Devices used in the conduct of charitable gaming.
         (e)   Coin-operated amusement machines.
         (f)   Devices used for wagering exempted from the application of this
chapter pursuant to KRS 436.480.
         (g)   Devices used in e- sports competitions.
         (h)   Devices used in skill-based contests, provided such devices do
not meet the definition of gambling devices in this section.
   LOTTERY AND GIFT ENTERPRISE.
      (1)   A gambling scheme in which:
         (a)   The players pay or agree ro pay something of value for chances,
represented and differentiated by numbers or by combinations of numbers or by
some other media, one or more of which are to be designated the winning ones;
         (b)   The winning chances are to be determined by a drawing or by some
other method based upon the element of chance; and
         (c)   The holders of the winning chances are to receive something of
value.
      (2)   A gift enterprise or referral sales plan which meets the elements
of a lottery listed in division (1) above is to be considered a lottery under
this chapter.
   MUTUEL or THE NUMBERS GAMES. A form of lottery in which the winning chances
or plays are not determined upon the basis of a drawing or other act on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the scheme, but upon the basis of
the outcome or outcomes of a future contingent event, or events otherwise
unrelated to the particular scheme.
   PLAYER. A person who engages in any form of gambling solely as a contestant
or better, without receiving or becoming entitled to receive any profit
therefrom other than personal gambling winnings, and without otherwise
rendering any material assistance to the establishment, conduct or operation of
the particular gambling activity. A person who engages in “bookmaking” as
defined herein is not a PLAYER. The status of a PLAYER shall be a defense to
any prosecution under this section.
   PROFITING FROM GAMBLING ACTIVITY. A person PROFITS FROM GAMBLING ACTIVITY
when, other than as a player, he or s he accepts or receives or agrees to
accept, or receive money or other property pursuant to an agreement or
understanding with any person whereby he or she participates or is to
participate in the proceeds of gambling activity.
   SIMULATED GAMBLING PROGRAM. Any method intended to be used by a person
playing, participating, or interacting with an electronic device that may,
through the application of any element of chance, either deliver money or
property or an entitlement to receive money or property.
   SKILL. The knowledge, dexterity, or any other ability or expertise of a
natural person.
   SKILL-BASED CONTEST. A live, in- person competitive event among two or more
individuals or teams of individuals in which the ultimate winner is determined
by skill and the competitive event does not utilize a gambling device.
   SOMETHING OF VALUE.  
      (1)   Any money or property, any token, object or article exchangeable
for money or property, or any form of credit or promise directly or indirectly
contemplating transfer of money or property or of any interest therein, or
involving extension of a service, entertainment or a privilege of playing at a
game or scheme without charge.
      (2)   SOMETHING OF VALUE does not include the award of a free, extended,
or continuous play which is awarded as a prize for playing a game or scheme for
a charge.
§ 134.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Proof of possession of any gambling device or any gambling record
specified in §§
134.04 and
134.06, is prima facie evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its
character or contents.
   (B)   In any prosecution under this chapter in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation or evidence that a description of some aspect of the event
was written, printed or otherwise noted at the place in which a violation of
the ordinance is alleged to have been committed shall be admissible in evidence
and shall constitute prima facie proof of the occurrence of the event.
(KRS 528.090)
   (C)   (1)   Any gambling device or gambling record possessed or used in
violation of this ordinance is forfeited to the state, and shall be disposed of
in accordance with KRS 500.090.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, any person who
conducts, finances, manages, supervises, directs, or owns a gambling device
intended for use in the Commonwealth in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 for each device, payable to
the county in which the device was operated.
      (3)   The Attorney General, the Commonwealth’s attorney for any locality,
or the county attorney for any locality may cause an action in equity to be
brought in the name of the Commonwealth or the locality, as applicable, to:
         (a)   Enjoin the operation of a gambling device in violation of this
section;
         (b)   Request an attachment against all such devices and any moneys
within those devices pursuant to KRS 500.090; and
         (c)   Recover the civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 per device.
(KRS 528.100) (1980 Code, § 1020.14-2)
§ 134.03 PROMOTING GAMBLING IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of promoting gambling in the second degree when he
knowingly advances or profits from unlawful gambling activity.
   (B)   Promoting gambling in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 528.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.14-3)
§ 134.04 POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of possession of gambling records in the second
degree when, with knowledge of the contents thereof he or she possesses in
writing, paper instrument or articles of a kind commonly used:
      (1)   In the operation or promotion of a bookmaking scheme or enterprise;
or
      (2)   In the operation, promotion or playing of a lottery or mutuel
scheme or enterprise totaling less than $500 or representing less than 500
plays or chances therein.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section that:
      (1)   The writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant constituted, reflected or represented bets of the defendant himself
or herself in a number not exceeding 10; or
      (2)   The writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the operation or
promotion of a bookmaking scheme or enterprise, or in the operation, promotion
or playing of a lottery or mutual scheme or enterprise.
   (C)   Possession of gambling records in the second degree is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(KRS 528.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.14-4)
§ 134.05 PERMITTING GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of permitting gambling when, having possession or
control of premises which he or she knows are being used to advance gambling
activity, he or she fails to halt or abate or attempt to halt or abate such use
within a reasonable period of time.
   (B)   Permitting gambling is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 528.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.14-5)
§ 134.06 POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of possession of a gambling device when, with
knowledge of the character thereof, he or she manufactures, sells, transports,
places or possesses a gambling device or conducts or negotiates any transaction
affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody or use of any gambling
device, believing that it is to be used in the advancement of unlawful gambling
activity.
   (B)   Possession of a gambling device is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 528.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.14-6)
CHAPTER 135: OBSCENE MATERIAL
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   General provisions
   
135.03   Distribution of obscene matter
   
135.04   Distribution of obscene matter to minors
   
135.05   Using minors to distribute obscene material
   
135.06   Advertising obscene material
   
135.07   Promoting sale of obscenity
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD SEX DOLL. An anatomically correct or anatomically precise doll,
mannequin, or robot that may consist of an entire body, pelvis, or any other
body part, with features of, or with features that resemble, those of a minor
and intended for use in sexual acts.
   COMPUTER. Electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemical, or other high-
speed data processing device performing logical, arithmetic, or storage
functions, including but not limited to personal computers, laptops, computer
software, computer servers, processors, coprocessors, memory devices, storage
devices, and input and output devices.
   COMPUTER-GENERATED IMAGE. Any visual depiction, including any photograph,
film, video, or picture, where the depiction has been created, adapted, or
modified by a computer to appear to be an identifiable person.
   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   IDENTIFIABLE PERSON. A person who is recognizable by the person’s face,
likeness, or other distinguishing characteristic.
   MATTER. Any:
      (1)   Book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written material;
      (2)   Picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, live image
transmitted over the internet or other electronic network, other pictorial
representation, or computer-generated image;
      (3)   Statue, child sex doll, or other figure; or
      (4)   Recording, transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical
reproduction, or any other articles, equipment, machines, or materials.
   OBSCENE.
      (1)   To the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
the predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to prurient interest
in sexual conduct;
      (2)   The matter depicts or describes the sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way; and
      (3)   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PRIVATE EROTIC MATTER. An obscene visual image, including a photograph,
film, video recording, computer-generated image, or digital reproduction, of an
identifiable person, depicting sexual conduct or the exposure of uncovered
human genitals, buttocks, or nipple of the female breast. A person may be
identifiable from the image itself or from information distributed in
connection with the visual image.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, lesbianism, bestiality,
sexual intercourse or deviate sexual intercourse; or physical contact with the
genitals, flagellation or excretion of the purpose of sexual stimulation or
gratification.
(KRS 531.010) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-1)
§ 135.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions and penalties imposed in this chapter shall not
extend to persons having a bona fide scientific, educational, governmental or
other similar justification for conduct which would, except for such
justification, be criminal under this chapter.
(KRS 531.070)
   (B)   Special verdict.
      (1)   The jury, or the court, if a jury trial is waived, shall render a
general verdict, and shall also render a special verdict as to whether the
matter named in the charge is obscene. The special verdict or findings on the
issue of obscenity may be: “We find the ___ (title or description of matter) to
be obscene,” or, “We find the ______ (title or description of matter) not to be
obscene” as they may find each item is or is not obscene.
      (2)   Upon the conviction of the accused, the court may, when the
conviction becomes final, order any matter or advertisement, in respect whereof
the accused stands convicted, and which remains in the possession or under the
control of the attorney general, commonwealth’s attorney, county attorney, city
attorney or their authorized assistants, or any law enforcement agency, to be
destroyed, and the court may cause to be destroyed any such material in its
possession or under its control.
(KRS 531.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-2)
§ 135.03 DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   A person is guilty of distribution of obscene matter when, having
knowledge of its content and character, he or she:
      (1)   Sends or causes to be sent into this state for sale or
distribution;
      (2)   Brings or causes to be brought into this state for sale or
distribution; or
      (3)   In this state, he or she:
         (a)   Prepares;
         (b)   Publishes;
         (c)   Prints;
         (d)   Exhibits;
         (e)   Distributes;
         (f)   Offers to distribute; or
         (g)   Has in his or her possession with intent to distribute, exhibit
or offer to distribute, any obscene matter.
   (B)   Distribution of obscene matter is a Class B misdemeanor unless the
defendant has is his possession more than one unit of material coming within
the provisions of this chapter, in which case it shall be a Class A
misdemeanor.
(KRS 531.020) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-3)
§ 135.04 DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATTER TO MINORS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of distribution of obscene material to minors when,
knowing a person to be a minor, or having possession of such facts that he or
she should reasonably know that such person is a minor, and with knowledge of
the content and character of the material, he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sends or causes to be sent;
      (2)   Exhibits; or
      (3)   Distributes, or offers to distribute, obscene material to a minor.
   (B)   Distribution of obscene materials to minors is a Class A misdemeanor
unless the defendant has previously been convicted of violation of this section
or of §
135.03.
(KRS 531.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-4) Penalty, see § 135.99
§ 135.05 USING MINORS TO DISTRIBUTE OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   (A)   A person is guilty of using minors to distribute obscene material when
knowing a person to be a minor, or having possession of such facts that he
should reasonably know such person is a minor, and knowing of the content and
character of the material, he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Hires;
      (2)   Employs; or
      (3)   Uses, a minor to do or assist in doing any of the acts prohibited
by §
135.03.
   (B)   Using minors to distribute obscene material is a Class A misdemeanor,
unless the defendant has previously been convicted of violation of this section
or §
138.23.
(KRS 531.040) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-5)
§ 135.06 ADVERTISING OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   (A)   A person is guilty of advertising obscene material when, having
knowledge of its content and character thereof, he or she writes or creates
advertising or solicits anyone to publish such advertising or otherwise
promotes the sale or distribution of obscene matter.
   (B)   Advertising obscene material is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(KRS 531.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-6)
§ 135.07 PROMOTING SALE OF OBSCENITY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of promoting sale of obscenity when he or she
knowingly, as a condition to a sale, allocation, consignment or delivery for
resale of any paper, magazine, book, periodical, publication or other
merchandise, requires that the purchaser or consignee receive any matter
reasonably believed by the purchaser or consignee to be obscene, or he or she
denies or threatens to deny a franchise, revokes or threatens to revoke, or
imposes any penalty, financial or otherwise, by reason of the failure of any
person to accept such matter, or by reason of the return of such matter.
   (B)   Promoting sale of obscenity is a Class B misdemeanor for the first
offense; and a Class A misdemeanor for the second offense.
(KRS 531.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.18-7)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Assault in the third degree
   
136.03   Assault under extreme emotional disturbance
   
136.04   Menacing
   
136.05   Wanton endangerment in the second degree
   
136.06   Terroristic threatening
   
136.07   Unlawful imprisonment in the second degree
   
136.08   Custodial interference
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RELATIVE. A parent, ancestor, brother, sister uncle or aunt.
   RESTRAIN.
      (1)   To restrict another person’s movements in such a manner as to cause
a substantial interference with his or her liberty by moving from one place to
another or by confining him or her either in the place where the restriction
commences or in a place to which he or she has been moved without consent.
      (2)   A person is moved or confined “without consent” when the movement
or confinement is accomplished by physical force, intimidation or deception or
by any means, including acquiescence of a victim, if he or she is under the age
of 16 years, or is substantially incapable of appraising or controlling his or
her own behavior.
(KRS 509. 010) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-1)
§ 136.02 ASSAULT IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of assault in the third degree when:
      (1)   He or she intentionally or wantonly causes physical injury to
another person; or
      (2)   With recklessness he or she causes physical injury to another
person by means of a deadly weapon or a dangerous instrument:
   (B)   Assault in the third degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 508.030) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-2)
§ 136.03 ASSAULT UNDER EXTREME EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   In any prosecution under §
136.02, in which intentionally causing physical injury or serious physical
injury is an element of the offense, the defendant may establish in mitigation
that he or she acted under the influence of extreme emotional disturbance.
(KRS 508.040)
      (1)   A defendant acted under the influence of extreme emotional
disturbance if there was a reasonable explanation or excuse.
      (2)   The reasonableness of the explanation or excuse is to be determined
from the viewpoint of a person in the defendant situation under the
circumstances as the defendant believed them to be.
(KRS 507.020)
   (B)   An assault in the third degree committed under the influence of
extreme emotional disturbance is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 508.040) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-3)
§ 136.04 MENACING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of menacing when he or she intentionally places
another person in reasonable apprehension of imminent physical injury.
   (B)   Menacing is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 508.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-4)
§ 136.05 WANTON ENDANGERMENT IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of wanton endangerment in the second degree when he
or she wantonly engages in conduct which creates a substantial danger of
physical injury to another person.
   (B)   Wanton endangerment in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 508.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-5)
§ 136.06 TERRORISTIC THREATENING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of terroristic threatening when:
      (1)   He or she threatens to commit a crime likely to result in death or
serious physical injury to another person or likely to result in substantial
property damage to another person; or
      (2)   He or she intentionally makes false statements for the purpose of
causing evacuation of a building, place of assembly or facility of public
transportation.
   (B)   Terroristic threatening is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 508.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-6)
§ 136.07 UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of unlawful imprisonment in the second degree when
he or she knowingly and unlawfully restrains another person.
   (B)   Unlawful imprisonment in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 509.030)
   (C)   A person may be convicted of unlawful imprisonment in the second
degree when his or her criminal purpose is the commission of an offense outside
this section and his or her interference with the victims liberty occurs
immediately with and incidental to the commission of that offense, unless the
interference exceeds that which is ordinarily incident to commission of the
offense which is the objective of his or her criminal purpose.
(KRS 509.050)
   (D)   In any prosecution for unlawful imprisonment in the second degree it
is a defense that the defendant was a relative of the victim, and his or her
sole purpose was to assume custody of the victim.
(KRS 509.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-7)
§ 136.08 CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of custodial interference when knowing that he or
she has no legal right to do so, he or she takes, entices or keeps from lawful
custody any incompetent or other person entrusted by authority of law to the
custody of another person or to an institution.
   (B)   It is a defense to custodial interference that the person taken from
lawful custody was returned by the defendant voluntarily and before arrest of
the issuance of a warrant for arrest.
   (C)   Custodial interference is a Class A misdemeanor if the person taken
from lawful custody is returned voluntarily by the defendant, or if the
defendant is a relative of the victim.
(KRS 509.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.2-8)
CHAPTER 137: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Criminal Trespass
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   General provisions
   
137.03   Criminal trespass in the first degree
   
137.04   Criminal trespass in the second degree
   
137.05   Criminal trespass in the third degree
Criminal Damage to Property
   
137.20   Definitions
   
137.21   Criminal mischief in the second degree
   
137.22   [Reserved]
   
137.23   Criminal use of noxious substance
   
137.24   Criminal possession of noxious substance
   
137.25   Criminal littering
   
137.26   Unlawfully posting advertisements
Theft and Related Offenses
   
137.40   Definitions
   
137.41   General provisions
   
137.42   Possession of burglar’s tools
   
137.43   Theft by unlawful taking or disposition
   
137.44   Theft by deception
   
137.45   Theft of property lost, mislaid or delivered by mistake
   
137.46   Theft of service
   
137.47   Theft by failure to make required disposition of property
   
137.48   Theft by extortion
   
137.49   Theft of labor
   
137.50   Unauthorized use of vehicles
   
137.51   Receiving stolen property
   
137.52   Obscuring the identity of a machine
CRIMINAL TRESPASS
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING.
      (1)   Any structure, vehicle, watercraft or aircraft:
         (a)   Where any person lives; or
         (b)   Where people assemble for purposes of business, government,
education, religion, entertainment or public transportation.
      (2)   Each unit of a building consisting of two or more units separately
secured or occupied is a separate BUILDING.
   DWELLING. A building which is usually occupied by a person lodging therein.
   PREMISES. The term building as defined herein and any real property.
(KRS 511.010) (1980 Code, § 1020.3-1)
§ 137.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A person “enters of remains unlawfully” in or upon premises when he or
she is not privileged or licensed to do so.
   (B)   A person who, regardless of his or her intent, enters or remains in or
upon premises which are at the time open to the public does so with license or
privilege unless he or she defies a lawful order not to enter or remain
personally communicated to him or her by the owner of such premises or other
authorized person.
   (C)   A license or privilege to enter or remain in or upon premises which
are only partly open to the public is not a license or privilege to enter or
remain in or upon any part of the premises which is not open to the public.
   (D)   A person who enters or remains upon unimproved and apparently unused
land which is neither fenced nor otherwise enclosed does not commit criminal
trespass unless notice against trespass is personally communicated to him or
her by the owner of the land or some other authorized person or unless notice
is given by posting in a conspicuous manner.
(KRS 511.090) (1980 Code, § 1020.3-2)
§ 137.03 CRIMINAL TRESPASS IN THE FIRST DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal trespass in the first degree when he or
she knowingly enters or remains unlawfully in a dwelling.
   (B)   Criminal trespass in the first degrees is a Class A misdemeanor,
unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS 39A.020
arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered by the
emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in which
case it is a Class D felony.
(KRS 511.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.3-3)
§ 137.04 CRIMINAL TRESPASS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal trespass in the second degree when he
or she knowingly enters or remains unlawfully in a building or upon premises as
to which notice against trespass is given by fencing or other enclosure.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, notice against trespass includes the
placement of identifying purple paint marks on trees or posts on the property,
if the marks are:
      (1)   Vertical lines of not less than eight inches in length and not less
than one inch in width;
      (2)   Placed so that the bottom of the mark is not less than three feet
from the ground nor more than five feet from the ground; and
      (3)   Placed at locations that are readily visible to any person
approaching the property and no more than:
         (a)   One hundred feet apart on forest land; or
         (b)   One thousand feet apart on land other than forest land.
   (C)   Criminal trespass in the second degree is a Class B misdemeanor,
unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS 39A.020
arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered by the
emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in which
case it is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 511.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.3-4)
§ 137.05 CRIMINAL TRESPASS IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal trespass in the third degree when he or
she knowingly enters or remains unlawfully in or upon premises.
   (B)   Criminal trespass in the third degree is a violation, unless the
offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS 39A.020 arising
from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered by the emergency
declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in which case it is
a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 511.080)
CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY
§ 137.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Rubbish, refuse, waste material, offal, paper, glass, cans, bottles,
trash, debris or any foreign substance of whatever kind or description and
whether or not it is of value.
   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance capable of generating offensive, noxious or
suffocating fumes, gases or vapors.
(1980 Code, § 1020.4-1)
Statutory reference:
   For similar definitions under state law, see KRS 512.010
§ 137.21 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal mischief in the second degree when,
having no right to do so or any reasonable ground to believe that he or she has
such right, he or she intentionally or wantonly defaces, destroys or damages
any property causing pecuniary loss of $500 or more.
   (B)   Criminal mischief in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(1980 Code, § 1020.4-2)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 512.030
§ 137.22 [RESERVED].
§ 137.23 CRIMINAL USE OF NOXIOUS SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal use of a noxious substance when he or
she unlawfully deposits on the land or in the building or vehicle of another
any stink bomb, device or irritant with the intent to interfere with another’s
use of the land, building or vehicle.
   (B)   Criminal use of a noxious substance is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 512.050)
§ 137.24 CRIMINAL POSSESSION OF NOXIOUS SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal possession of noxious substance when he
or she possesses such substance under circumstances evincing an intent
unlawfully to use or cause it to be used to inflict injury upon or to cause
annoyance to a person, or to damage property of another, or to disturb the
public peace.
   (B)   Criminal possession of a noxious substance is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 512.060) (1980 Code, § 1020.4-5)
§ 137.25 CRIMINAL LITTERING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of criminal littering when he or she:
      (1)   Drops or permit to drop on a highway any destructive or injurious
material and does not immediately remove it;
      (2)   Knowingly places or throws litter on any public or private property
or in any public or private water without permission;
      (3)   Negligently places or throws glass or other dangerous pointed or
edged substances ora or adjacent to water to which the public has access for
swimming or wading or on or within 50 feet of a public highway; or
      (4)   Discharges sewage, minerals, oil products or litter into any public
waters or lakes within the state.
   (B)   Criminal littering is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 512.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.4-6)
§ 137.26 UNLAWFULLY POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   A person is guilty or unlawfully posting advertisements when, having
no right to do so or any reasonable ground to believe that he or she has such
right, he or she posts, paints or otherwise affixes to the property of another
person or to public property any advertisement, poster, notice or other matter.
   (B)   Unlawfully posting advertisements is a violation.
(KRS 512.080) (1980 Code, § 1020.4-7)
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 137.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPRIVE. To withhold property of another permanently or for extended period
as to appropriate a major portion of the economic value or with intent to
restore only upon payment of reward or other compensation; or to dispose of the
property so as to make it unlikely that the owner will recover it.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, insurance company, credit union, building and
loan association, savings and loan association, investment trust or other
organization held out to the public as a place of deposit of funds or medium of
savings or collective investment.
   MOVABLE PROPERTY. Property the location of which can be changed, including
things growing on, affixed to, or found in land, and documents although the
rights represented thereby have no physical location. “Immovable property” is
all other property.
   OBTAIN. In relation to property, to bring about a transfer or purported
transfer from another person of a legal interest in the property, whether to
the obtainer or another; or in relation to labor or service, to secure
performance thereof.
   PROPERTY. Anything of value, including real estate, tangible and intangible
personal property, contract rights, documents, choses-in-action and other
interests in or claims to wealth, admission or transportation tickets, captured
or domestic animals, food and drink.
   PROPERTY OF ANOTHER. Includes property in which any person other than the
actor has an interest which the actor is not privileged to infringe, regardless
of the fact that the actor also has an interest in the property and regardless
of the fact that the other person might be precluded from civil recovery
because the property was used in unlawful transaction or was subject to
forfeiture as contraband. Property is possession of the actor shall not be
deemed property of another who has only a security interest therein, even if
legal title is in the creditor pursuant to a conditional sales contract or
other security arrangement.
   RECEIVING. Acquiring possession, control or title or lending in the security
of the property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, professional service, transportation, telephone,
electricity, gas, water or other public service, accommodation in hotels,
restaurants or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions, use of vehicles or other
movable property.
(KRS 514.010) (1980 Code, § 1020.5-1)
§ 137.41 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for theft that the actor:
      (1)   Was aware that the property or service was that of another;
      (2)   Acted under a claim of right to the property or service involved or
a claim that he or she had a right to acquire or dispose of it as he or she
did; or
      (3)   Took property exposed for sale, intending to purchase and pay for
it promptly, or reasonably believing that the owner, if present, would have
consented.
   (B)   It is no defense that theft was from the actors spouse, except that
misappropriation of household and personal effects or other property normally
accessible to both spouses is theft only if it occurs after the parties have
ceased living together.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence of intent to commit theft by fraud
when one who has leased or rented the personal property of another fails to
return the personal property to its owner within four days after the lease or
rental agreement has expired. It shall also be prima facie evidence of intent
to commit theft by fraud when one presents to the owner identification which is
false, fictitious or not current as to name, address, place of employment or
other items of identification for the purpose of obtaining the lease or rental
agreement. Nothing herein contained shall relieve the owner from making demand
for return of property so leased or rented. Notice addressed and mailed to the
lessee or renter at the address given at the time of the making of the lease or
rental agreement shall constitute proper demand.
(KRS 514.020) (1980 Code, § 1020.5-2)
§ 137.42 POSSESSION OF BURGLARS TOOLS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of possession of burglars tools when he or she
possesses any tool, instrument or other things adapted, designed or commonly
used for committing or facilitating the commission of an offense involving
forcible entry into premises or theft by a physical taking under circumstances
which have no reasonable doubt as to his or her:
      (1)   Intention to use the same in the commission of an offense of such
character; or
      (2)   Knowledge that some other person intends to use the same in the
commission of an offense of such character.
   (B)   Possession of burglars tools is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 511.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.5-3)
§ 137.43 THEFT BY UNLAWFUL TAKING OR DISPOSITION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft by unlawful taking or disposition when he
or she unlawfully:
      (1)   Takes or exercises control over movable property of another with
intent to deprive him or her thereof; or
      (2)   Obtains movable property of another or any interest therein with
intent to benefit himself or herself or another not entitled thereto.
   (B)   Theft by unlawful taking or disposition is a Class A misdemeanor is
the value of the property is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-4)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.030
§ 137.44 THEFT BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft by deception when he or she obtains
property of another by deception with intent to deprive him or her thereof. A
person deceives when he or she intentionally:
      (1)   Creates or reinforces a false impression, including false
impressions as to law, value, intention or other state of mind;
      (2)   Prevents another from acquiring information which would affect his
judgment of a transaction;
      (3)   Fails to correct a false impression which the deceiver previously
created or reinforced or which the deceiver knows to be influencing another to
whom he or she stands in a fiduciary or confidential relationship; or
      (4)   Fails to disclose a known lien, adverse claim or other legal
impediment to the enjoyment of property which he transfers or encumbers in
consideration for the property obtained, whether such impediment is or is not
valid or is or is not a matter of official record; or
      (5)   Issues or passes a check or similar sight order for the payment of
money, knowing that it will not be honored by the drawee.
   (B)   The term “deceive” does not, however, include falsity as to matters
having no pecuniary significance or puffing by statements unlikely to deceive
ordinary persons in the group addressed.
   (C)   Deception as to persons intention to perform a promise shall not be
inferred from the fact alone that he or she did not subsequently perform the
promise.
   (D)   For purposes of division (A)(1) above, an issuer of a check or similar
sight order for the payment of money is presumed to know that the check or
order, other than a postdated check or order, would not be paid if:
      (1)   The issuer had no account with the drawee at the time the check or
order was issued; or
      (2)   Payment was refused by the drawee for lack of funds, upon
presentation within 30 days after issue, and the issuer failed to make good
within ten days after receiving notice of that refusal.
   (E)   Theft by deception is a Class A misdemeanor if the value of the
property is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-5)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.040
§ 137.45 THEFT OF PROPERTY LOST, MISLAID OR DELIVERED BY MISTAKE.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 365.710, a person is guilty of theft of
property lost, mislaid or delivered by mistake when:
      (1)   He or she comes into control of the property of another that he
knows to have been lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to the nature
or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient; or
      (2)   With intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she fails to take
reasonable measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.
   (B)   Theft of property lost, mislaid or delivered by mistake is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-6)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.050
§ 137.46 THEFT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft of services when:
      (1)   The person intentionally obtains services by deception or threat or
by false token or other means to avoid payment for the services which he or she
knows are available only for compensation;
      (2)   The person intentionally obtains wireless communications services
or access to services by any of the following means:
         (a)   Unauthorized interception of any electronic serial number,
mobile identification number, personal identification number, or like
identifying number;
         (b)   Unauthorized interception of any cellular service or personal
communications service as terms may be defined in 47 C.F.R. parts 22 and 24
respectively;
         (c)   Unauthorized interception of any similar telephone service; or
         (d)   Use of deception, threat, or other means to avoid payment for
the services which the person knows are available only for charge or
compensation; or
      (3)   Having control over or unauthorized access to the use of the
services of others to which the person is not entitled, the person
intentionally diverts the services to the person’s own benefit or the benefit
of another not entitled thereto.
   (B)   Where compensation for services is ordinarily paid immediately upon
the rendering of the services, as in the case of hotels and restaurants,
refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay shall be prima
facie evidence that the services were obtained by deception as to intention to
pay.
   (C)   In any prosecution for theft of gas, water, electricity, or other
public service, where the utility supplying the service had installed a meter
or other device to record the amount of service supplied, proof that:
      (1)   The meter or other device has been altered, tampered with, or
bypassed in a manner so as to prevent or reduce the recording thereof; or
      (2)   Service has been, after having been disconnected by the utility
supplying service, reconnected without authorization of the utility shall be
prima facie evidence of the intent to commit theft of service by the person or
persons obligated to pay for service supplied through the meter or other
device.
   (D)   Theft of services is a Class B misdemeanor unless the value of the
service is $500 or more but less than $1,000, in which case it is a Class A
misdemeanor;
   (E)   If any person commits two or more separate offenses of theft of
services within 90 days, the offenses may be combined and treated as a single
offense, and the value of the property in each offense may be aggregated for
the purpose of determining the appropriate charge.
(KRS 514.060)
§ 137.47 THEFT BY FAILURE TO MAKE REQUIRED DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft by failure to make required disposition of
property received when:
      (1)   He or she obtains property upon agreement or subject to a known
legal obligation to make specified payment or other disposition whether from
such property or it proceeds or from his or her own property to be reserved in
equivalent amount; and
      (2)   He intentionally deals with the property as his or her own and
fails to make the required payment or disposition.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above apply notwithstanding that it may
be impossible to identify particular property as belonging to the victim at the
time if the actors failure to make the required payment or disposition.
   (C)   An officer of employee of the government or of a financial institution
is presumed:
      (1)   To know any legal obligation relevant to his or her criminal
liability under this section; and
      (2)   He or she fails to account or pay upon lawful demand; or
      (3)   An audit reveals a shortage or falsification of accounts.
   (D)   Theft by failure to make required disposition of property received is
a Class A misdemeanor if the value of the property is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-8)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.070
§ 137.48 THEFT BY EXTORTION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft by extortion when he or she intentionally
obtains property of another by threatening to:
      (1)   Inflict bodily injury on any one or commit any other criminal
offense;
      (2)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
      (3)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred, contempt
or ridicule, or to impair his or her credit or business repute;
      (4)   Use wrongfully his or her position as a public officer or servant
or employee by performing some act within or related to his or her official
duties, either expressed or implied, or by refusing or omitting to perform an
official duty, either expressed or implied, in such manner as to affect some
person adversely;
      (5)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
      (6)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or information
with respect to another’s legal claim or defense.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution based on divisions (A)(1), (A)(3) or
(A)(4) above that the property obtained by threat of accusation, exposure,
lawsuit of other invocation or official action was claimed as restitution or
indemnification for harm done on the circumstances to which accusation,
exposure, lawsuit or other official action relates, or as compensation for
property or lawful services.
   (C)   Theft by extortion is a Class A misdemeanor if the value of the
property is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-9)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.070
§ 137.49 THEFT OF LABOR.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft of labor already rendered when, in payment
of labor already rendered by another, he or she intentionally issues or passes
a check or similar sight order for the payment of money, knowing that it will
not be honored by the drawee.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) above, an issuer of a check or similar
sight order for the payment of money is presumed to know that the check or
order, would not be paid, if:
      (1)   The issuer had no account with the drawee at the time the check or
order was issued; or
      (2)   Payment was refused by the drawee for lack of funds, upon
presentation within 30 days after issue, and the issuer failed to make good
within ten days after receiving notice of that refusal.
   (C)   Theft of labor already rendered is a Class A misdemeanor if the value
of the labor rendered is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-10)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.090
§ 137.50 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   A person is guilty of the unauthorized use of an automobile or other
propelled vehicle when he or she knowingly operates, exercises control over, or
otherwise uses such vehicle without consent of the owner or person having legal
possession thereof.
   (B)   Unauthorized use of automobiles or other propelled vehicle is a Class
A misdemeanor.
(KRS 514.100) (1980 Code, § 1020.5-11)
§ 137.51 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of receiving stolen property when he or she
receives, retains or disposes of movable property of another knowing that it
has been stolen, unless the property is received, retained or disposed of with
intent to restore it to the owner.
   (B)   The possession by any person of a recently stolen movable property
shall be prima facie evidence that such person knew such property was stolen.
   (C)   Receiving stolen property is a Class A misdemeanor if the value of the
property received is less than $100.
(1980 Code, § 1020.5-12)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 514.110
§ 137.52 OBSCURING THE IDENTITY OF A MACHINE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of obscuring the identity of a machine when he or
she:
      (1)   Removes, defaces, covers, alters, destroys or otherwise obscures
the manufacturers serial number or any other distinguishing identification
number or mark upon any automobile or other propelled vehicle, machine, or
electrical or mechanical device with intent to render it unidentifiable; or
      (2)   Possesses for the purpose of sale in the course of business any
automobile or other propelled vehicle, machine, or electrical or mechanical
device knowing that the serial number or other identification number or mark
has been removed, defaced, covered, altered destroyed or otherwise obscured.
   (B)   Possession of any automobile or other propelled vehicle, machine or
electrical device held for sale in the course of business on which the serial
number or any other distinguishing identification number or mark has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, destroyed or otherwise obscured is prima
facie evidence of knowledge of the fact.
   (C)   A report by the defendant to the police or other appropriate
government agency prior to arrest or authorization of a warrant by a court is a
defense to a charge of violating division (A)(2) above.
   (D)   Obscuring the identity of a machine is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 514.120) (1980 Code, § 1020.5-13)
CHAPTER 138: SEXUAL OFFENSES
Section
Sexual Offenses Generally
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   General provisions
   
138.03   Sodomy in the fourth degree
   
138.04   Sexual abuse in the second degree
   
138.05   Sexual abuse in the third degree
   
138.06   Sexual misconduct
   
138.07   Indecent exposure
Prostitution and the Like
   
138.20   Definitions
   
138.21   General provisions
   
138.22   Prostitution
   
138.23   Promoting prostitution in the third degree
   
138.24   Permitting prostitution
SEXUAL OFFENSES GENERALLY
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVIATE SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Any act of sexual gratification between persons
not married to each other involving the sex organ of one person and the mouth
or anus of another.
   MENTALLY DEFECTIVE. That a person suffers from a mental disease or defect
which renders him or her incapable of appraising the nature of his or her
conduct.
   MENTALLY INCAPACITATED. That a person is rendered temporarily incapable of
appraising or controlling his or her conduct as a result of the influence of a
controlled or intoxicating substance administered to him or her without his or
her consent or as a result of any other act committed upon him or her without
his or her consent.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of the sexual or other intimate parts of a
person not married to the actor done for the purpose of gratifying the sexual
desire of either party.
(1980 Code, § 1020.16-1)
§ 138.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lack of consent.
      (1)   Whether or not specifically stated, it is an element of every
offense defined in this chapter that the sexual act was committed without the
consent of the victim.
      (2)   Lack of consent results from:
         (a)   Incapacity to consent; or
         (b)   If the offense charged is sexual abuse, any circumstances in
addition to forcible compulsion or incapacity to consent in which the victim
does not expressly or impliedly acquiesce in the actor’s conduct.
      (3)   A person is deemed incapable of consent when he or she is:
         (a)   Less than 16 years old;
         (b)   Mentally defective; or
         (c)   Mentally incapacitated.
(KRS 510.020)
   (B)   Defenses.
      (1)   In any prosecution under this chapter in which the victim's lack of
consent is based solely on his or her incapacity to consent because he or she
was, at the time of the offense:
         (a)   Less than 16 years old;
         (b)   16 or 17 years old and the defendant was at least ten years
older than the victim;
         (c)   An individual with an intellectual disability;
         (d)   Mentally incapacitated; or
         (e)   Physically helpless.
      (2)   The defendant may prove in exculpation that at the time of the
conduct constituting the offense he or she did not know of the facts or
conditions responsible for such incapacity to consent.
(KRS 510.030)
(1980 Code, § 1020.16-2)
§ 138.03 SODOMY IN THE FOURTH DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of sodomy in the fourth degree when he or she
engages in deviate sexual intercourse with another person of the same sex.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
138.02, consent of the other person shall not be a defense under this chapter,
nor shall lack of consent of the other person be an element of this offense.
   (C)   Sodomy in the fourth degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 510.100) (1980 Code, § 1020.16-3)
§ 138.04 SEXUAL ABUSE IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of sexual abuse in the second degree when he or she
is at least 18 years old but less than 21 years old and subjects another person
who is less than 16 years old to sexual contact.
   (B)   In any prosecution under this section, it is a defense that:
      (1)   The other person's lack of consent was due solely to incapacity to
consent by reason of being less than 16 years old; and
      (2)   The other person was at least 14 years old; and
      (3)   The actor was less than five years older than the other person.
   (C)   Sexual abuse in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(1980 Code, § 1020.16-4)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 510.120
§ 138.05 SEXUAL ABUSE IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of sexual abuse in the third degree when:
      (1)   He or she subjects another person to sexual contact without the
latter’s consent; or
      (2)   In any prosecution under this subchapter, it is a defense that:
         (a)   The other person’s lack of consent was due solely to incapacity
to consent by reason of being less than 16 years old;
         (b)   The other person was at least 14 years old; and
         (c)   The actor was less than five years older than the other person.
   (B)   Sexual abuse in the third degree is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 510.130) (1980 Code, § 1020.16-5)
§ 138.06 SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of sexual misconduct when he or she engages in
sexual intercourse or deviate sexual intercourse with another person without
the latter’s consent.
   (B)   Sexual misconduct is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 510.140) (1980 Code, § 1020.16-6)
§ 138.07 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of indecent exposure when he or she intentionally
exposes his or her genitals under circumstances in which he or she knows or
should know his or her conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
   (B)   Indecent exposure is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 510.150) (1980 Code, § 1020.16-7)
PROSTITUTION AND THE LIKE
§ 138.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCING PROSTITUTION. A person ADVANCES PROSTITUTION when acting other
than as a prostitute or as a patron thereof, he or she  knowingly causes or
aids a person to engage in prostitution, procures or solicits patrons for
prostitution, provides persons or premises for prostitution purposes, operates
or assists in the operation of a house of prostitution or a prostitution
enterprise, or engages in any conduct designed to institute, aid or facilitate
an act or enterprise of prostitution.
   PROFITING FROM PROSTITUTION. A person PROFITS FROM PROSTITUTION when acting
other than as a prostitute receiving compensation for personally rendered
prostitution services, he or she knowingly accepts or receives or agrees to
accept or receive money or other property pursuant to an agreement or
understanding with any person whereby he or she participates or is to
participate in proceeds of prostitution activity.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Sexual intercourse or any act of sexual gratification
involving the sex organs.
(KRS 529.010) (1980 Code, § 1020.17-1)
§ 138.21 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be convicted of prostitution solely on the
uncorroborated testimony of a patron.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of promoting prostitution solely on the
uncorroborated testimony of a person whose prostitution activity he or she is
alleged to have advanced or from whose prostitution activity he is alleged to
have prohibited.
(1980 Code, § 1020.17-2)
§ 138.22 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of prostitution when he or she engages or agrees or
offers to engage in sexual conduct with another person in return for a fee.
   (B)   Prostitution is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 529.020) (1980 Code, § 1020.17-3)
§ 138.23 PROMOTING PROSTITUTION IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of promoting prostitution in the third degree when
he knowingly advances or profits from prostitution activities that do not
include:
      (1)   Compelling a person by force or intimidation to engage in
prostitution or other such coercive conduct;
      (2)   Managing, supervising, controlling or owning either along or in
association with others, a house of prostitution or a prostitution business or
enterprise involving prostitution activity by two or more prostitutes; or
      (3)   Advancing or profiting from prostitution of a person less than 18
years old.
   (B)   Promoting prostitution in the third degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 529.030, 529.040 and 529.050) (1980 Code, § 1020.17-4)
§ 138.24 PERMITTING PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   A person is guilty of permitting prostitution when, having possession
or control of premises which he or she knows or has reasonable cause to know
are being used for prostitution purposes, he or she fails to make reasonable
and timely effort to halt or abate such use.
   (B)   Permitting prostitution is a Class B misdemeanor.
(KRS 529.070) (1980 Code, § 1020.17-5)
CHAPTER 139: WEAPONS; FIREARMS
Section
   
139.01   Declaration of emergency
   
139.02   Discharging firearms
 
   
139.99   Penalty
§ 139.01 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   It is hereby found, determined and declared that the facts and
recitals set forth in the preamble of this chapter are true and correct and are
hereby affirmed, and all acts described in preamble are hereby ratified. Such
facts and recitals, including the terms defined therein, are adopted and
incorporated as a part of this chapter.
   (B)   In accordance with KRS 83A.060(7), an emergency is hereby declared to
exist for the reasons described in the preamble of this chapter and the City
Commission suspends the requirement of publication of the ordinance/chapter (or
summary thereof) in order for it to become effective, so that the ordinance is
and shall be effective upon the adoption of this chapter; and further, this
chapter, because of said emergency hereby declared, shall be effective upon its
adoption on first reading, without publication, as provided in KRS 83A.060(7),
and the City Commission having hereby suspended the requirements of second
reading and publications. This chapter shall be published within ten days of
the adoption of this chapter as provided by law.
(Ord. 1020.20-4-2006, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 139.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   Any person who shall shoot or discharge firearms in the city, unless
necessary or proper for the protection of person or property, shall be subject
to a fine as provided in §
139.99. This section shall not apply to gunsmiths who discharge firearms on
their own premises in the pursuit of their regular business. Further, this
section shall not apply to firing ranges used to train law enforcement and/or
emergency management personnel.
(Ord. 1020.20-4-2006, passed 4-10-2006) Penalty, see §
139.99
§ 139.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for longer than
60 days or both.
(Ord. 1020.20-4-2006, passed 4-10-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   CODES ADOPTED
      
153.   ELECTRICAL CODE; INSPECTIONS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS
      
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
157.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
158.   ZONING CODE
      
159.   ACQUIRING CERTAIN CITY- OWNED PROPERTY
      
160.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
161.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Land Use Provisions
   
150.01   Fees charged by the Planning and Zoning Commission
   
150.02   Land use policy
Erosion; Natural Drainage
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   Conflicting provisions
   
150.17   Other permits
   
150.18   Definitions
   
150.19   Applicability
   
150.20   Stormwater Management Plan
   
150.21   Design criteria
   
150.22   Performance standards
   
150.23   Performance bonds and other assurances for completion and operation of
stormwater management improvements
   
150.24   Maintenance agreement
   
150.25   Reserved
   
150.26   Responsibility
   
150.27   Variances
   
150.28   Official maps and profiles
   
150.29   Interpretation
   
150.30   Inspection
   
150.31   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Chapter 151
   Codes Adopted, see
Chapter 152
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Chapter 154
   Unsafe Structures and Buildings, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL LAND USE PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FEES CHARGED BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The fees to be charged by the Planning and Zoning Commission, which can be
found in the ordinances listed in the history below, and which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
into this chapter as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 900.14-7-86, passed 7-22-1986; Ord. 900.15-2-87, passed 2-9-1987; Ord.
900.2-08-10-1998, passed 8-24-1988; Ord. 2019- 024, passed 10-28-2019; Ord.
2021-025, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 150.02 LAND USE POLICY.
   The following land use policy is adopted pursuant to the City Community
Development Block Grant Program, No. B-79-DN-21-0044 and No. B-80-DN-21-0066.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to provide direction to all staff
members and local officials in determining the types of land uses to be allowed
on land that has been or will be acquired as a result of the Community
Development Program of the city. It is desired that this land use policy be one
that will be consistent with the goals outlined in the Comprehensive Strategy
of the 1979 and 1980 applications for Block Grant Funds.
   (B)   One of the goals of the project, as stated in the Housing Assistance
Plan (HAP) is increasing the number of single family homeowners in the target
areas. Many of the relocatees have expressed a strong desire to remain in the
project area. In addition, it is hoped that the improved level of services will
encourage other community residents to invest in the target areas.
      (1)   The first priority for land use shall be given to those homeowners
whose homes have been acquired by project action. These persons shall be
allowed to build back on their former lots, if they so desire, and the city
shall deed their lot back to them at no cost to the home-owned; however, the
lot must be in compliance with current zoning regulations.
      (2)   Displaced homeowners not rebuilding on their existing lot will be
given a choice of available lots located in the project area at no cost to the
homeowner, providing the lots conform to current zoning regulations.
      (3)   The above actions are subject to the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition (24 C.F.R. part 42) regulations as amended by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      (4)   The second priority shall be given to project area residents,
presently tenants, who wish to become homeowners. This policy shall apply also
to any low/moderate income citizens who live elsewhere in the city who wish to
build homes in the target area. Building lots shall be provided to these
persons at a price not to exceed the appraised fair market value for the land
under consideration. Additionally, every effort shall be made by staff members
to aid in securing either conventional or FmHA loans for these persons.
      (5)   In the event that there is land remaining, these parcels may either
be sold to the original land owner at a price not less than the appraised value
of the land minus the buildings, or the city may receive sealed bids for each
parcel of land available. When the lot is sold, the deed from the city shall
contain certain restrictions that will prevent recurrence of the blight and
substandard conditions that first necessitated acquisition. These restrictions
shall insure that development on these lots will be consistent with state and
local building codes and will contain adequate lot frontage and building size.
   (C)   There are certain types of land uses which should be prohibited or
severely restricted in order to develop and maintain a high quality of life for
neighborhood residents. These uses include:
      (1)   Mobile homes;
      (2)   Industrial or commercial use; and
      (3)   Multi-family development, unless it can be shown that sufficient
demand exists in the city for this type of use. If such development does occur,
it shall not decrease or diminish the quality of life nor the level of services
provided to existing neighborhood residents.
   (D)   This policy shall take effect after review and approval by the
Citizens Advisory Committee, and then by the City Commission. Any exceptions to
this policy shall be allowed only by the City Commission, first reading July
13, 1981.
(Ord. 970.1, passed 8-13-1981)
EROSION; NATURAL DRAINAGE
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce or eliminate the hazards
to public health and safety caused by excessive stormwater runoff, reduce
economic losses to individuals and the community at large, enhance broader
social and economic objectives, and protect, conserve and promote the orderly
development of land and water resources.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter further supplement ordinances
regulating:
      (1)   The subdivision, layout and improvement of lands located within the
corporate limits of city;
      (2)   The excavating, filling and grading of lots and other parcels of
areas;
      (3)   The construction of buildings and the drainage of the sites on
which those structures are located, to include parking and other paved areas;
and
      (4)   The design, construction and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.16 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed as additional requirements
to standards required by other ordinances of the city, the state and Franklin-
Simpson Planning and Zoning. In case of conflicting requirements, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.17 OTHER PERMITS.
   Before starting any activities regulated by this subchapter, an applicant
shall comply with the requirements set forth in other applicable ordinances
with respect to the submission and approval of preliminary and final
subdivision plats, improvement plans, building and zoning permits, inspections,
appeals and similar matters, along with those set forth in this subchapter and
as may be required by state statutes and the regulations of any department of
the state.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any structure which is designed to collect and store
surface water for subsequent gradual discharge.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any component of the drainage system. The total drainage
system consists of two distinct components, the minor system and the major
system. Both systems must be jointly planned and properly engineered.
      (1)   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system that conveys the runoff when the
capacity of the minor system is exceeded or inoperable due to temporary
blockage. The MAJOR SYSTEM consists of major channels, large conduits and
impoundments, as well as the less obvious watercourses inundated during
surcharging and overflow from the minor system. The objective in MAJOR SYSTEM
planning and design is to eliminate property damage and loss of life during
major storm events. The peak design storm return period for the MAJOR SYSTEM is
100 years.
      (2)   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The initial stormwater collection network
which conveys the runoff from relatively frequent rainfall events. Elements of
the MINOR SYSTEM include yard swales, street or roadway curbs and gutters, and
storm sewers or open ditches, which collect and concentrate local storm runoff.
The MINOR SYSTEM may be thought of as the drainage system which handles the
local storm runoff generated within the confines of a subdivision or a
neighborhood. It is not practical or economical to size the MINOR SYSTEM
components for major or infrequent storm events. The objective in MINOR SYSTEM
planning and design is to provide for convenience, eliminate nuisance ponding
of water and frequently occurring minor flood damage, and to minimize street
maintenance efforts. The design storm return period for the MINOR SYSTEM is ten
years.
   EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the stormwater which exceeds the
safe storm drainage capacity of storm sewers or natural drainage channels
serving a specific watershed.
   FLOODPLAIN. The general floodplain area is the portion of the flood hazard
area subject to periodic flooding and delineated by the latest revision of the
flood hazard boundary maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and designated as the 100-year floodplain boundary. Where no map exist,
boundaries of FLOODPLAIN AREA may be determined by hydrologic calculation
acceptable to FEMA. In calculating the boundaries of the FLOODPLAIN, the
regulatory flood shall be  a 100-year frequency flood, and it shall be assumed
that the entire drainage area contributing stormwater runoff which is deposited
in the channel location in question will be developed as the city zoning and
subdivision regulations suggest.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the flood hazard determined by the hydraulic
calculations as the stream channel and overbank areas which are capable of
conveying the regulatory flood discharge, a 100-year frequency flood discharge,
keeping it within designated heights and velocities. The FLOODWAY is intended
to be kept free of encroachment to carry the deeper fast moving water, and to
serve as the primary drainage way for conveyance of flood water. The designated
height for determining the FLOODWAY boundaries is one foot increase of the 100-
year flood elevations.
   100-YEAR 24-HOUR FREQUENCY RAINFALL. A precipitation event of 24-hours
duration, having a 1% chance of occurring in any one year.
   PROTECTED CHANNEL. A channel which receives stormwater discharge and which
is paved, rip-rapped or otherwise improved by addition of human-made materials
so as to reduce the potential for erosion.
   SAFE STORM DRAINAGE CAPACITY. The quantity of stormwater runoff that can be
transported by a channel or conduit without having the water surface rise above
the top of the channel or conduit plus any designated freeboard.
   STORMWATER CHANNEL. A natural or human-made open watercourse with definite
bed and banks which periodically or continuously contains moving water, or
which forms a connecting link between two bodies of water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. Water that results from precipitation which is not
absorbed by the soil or vegetation or evaporated and which flows over the
ground surface or is collected in channels or conduits.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF RELEASE RATE. The rate of which stormwater runoff is
released from dominant to servient land.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 2023-022, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 150.19 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A Stormwater Management Plan shall be required for any residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional or utility development. No final
subdivision plat shall be approved and no building permits shall be issued and
no construction shall take place or be allowed to continue, until and unless
the Stormwater Management Plan has been reviewed and approved by the city.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any of the above-listed developments
notwithstanding plat approval prior to its passage; provided, however, that any
subdivision or development which has been platted and approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission prior to the passage of this section, and for which
building permits have been issued, may apply for an exemption from compliance.
   (C)   Said application shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the
City Commission no later than December 31, 1994. The Commission shall provide
the Building Inspector with a list of exempt subdivisions by January 31, 1995.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 980.3-11-94, passed 11-30-1994)
§ 150.20 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The required Stormwater Management Plan shall identify means for
controlling the stormwater runoff release rate from the development and
providing storage potential for the excess stormwater runoff where required.
All computations, plans and specifications related to the implementation of
this subchapter must be prepared and sealed by a professional engineer
registered in the state.
   (B)   The Stormwater Management Plan shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information, unless specifically excluded by the city’s Drainage
Coordinator:
      (1)   A topographic map of the project site and adjacent areas, of
suitable scale and contour interval, which shall define the location of
streams, the extent of floodplains and calculated high water elevations, the
shoreline of lakes, ponds, swamps and detention basins including their inflow
and outflow structures, if any;
      (2)   Maps showing pre-development and post-development drainage areas
used for computations of the design runoff hydrographs and hydrologic data for
each drainage area: runoff curve number, time of concentration, area and the
like;
      (3)   The location and flow line elevation of all existing sanitary,
storm or combined sewers;
      (4)   Detailed determination of runoff anticipated for the entire project
site following development indicating design volumes and rates of proposed
runoff for each portion of the watershed tributary to the storm drainage
system, the calculations used to determine said runoff volumes and rates and
restatement of the criteria which have been used by the project engineer
throughout his or her calculations;
      (5)   A layout of the proposed stormwater management system including the
location, size and elevation of all drainage structures, storm sewers, channels
and channel sections, detention basins and analyses regarding the effect said
improvements will have upon the receiving channel and its high water elevation;
      (6)   The slope, type and size of all existing and proposed storm sewers
and other waterways;
      (7)   For all detention basins, a plot or tabulation of storage volumes
with corresponding water surface elevations and of the basin outflow rates for
those water surface elevations;
      (8)   For all detention basins, design hydrographs using the Soil
Conservation Service Unit Hydrograph methodology of inflow and outflow for the
two year, five year, ten year, 25 year, 50 year and 100 year design storms such
that post-development peak flows are equal to or less than pre-development peak
flows. The release rate from any detention facility is to be designed to be
equivalent to or less than that of the site or drainage area prior to the
proposed development for these storms. The next two downstream structures from
the site must be capable of passing these storms or they become the limiting
factor for the drainage area. A basin emergency overflow must be capable of
controlling, at a minimum, the 100 year storm discharge.
      (9)   For minor drainage system, the design storm return period is ten
years. For a major drainage system, the design storm return period is 100
years;
      (10)   A profile and one or more cross-sections of all existing and
proposed channels or other open drainage facilities, showing existing
conditions and the proposed changes thereto, together with the highwater
elevations expected from stormwater runoff under the controlled conditions
called for by these regulations and the relationship of structures, streets and
other utilities to such channels;
      (11)   Embankment design computations including seepage control, slope
protection and freeboard calculations (use soil conservation service criteria
as a guide) for permanent pool basins; and
      (12)   Calculations of effects (if any) on established floodplain
boundaries. Changes to approved floodplain areas must be calculated in
accordance with the city Flood Prevention Ordinance and FEMA requirements.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 2023-022, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 150.21 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The following rules shall govern the design of improvements with respect to
managing stormwater runoff.
   (A)   Methods of determining stormwater runoff rate and volume. For the
design of drainage and storage facilities, runoff discharge rate and total
volume shall be calculated using the rational method, Soil Conservation Service
Unit Hydrograph method or some other accepted method as agreed in advance with
the city’s Drainage Coordinator. For all detention/retention facilities, the
Soil Conservation Service Unit Hydrograph method will be required. Total volume
outflow must also be considered when reviewing downstream conditions. Further,
the “Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Controlling Erosion, Sediment, and
Pollutant Runoff from Construction Sites” Manual, most recent edition as
revised from time-to-time, as adopted and approved by the Kentucky Department
of Environmental Protection, Division of Water, is hereby adopted by the City
of Franklin and is incorporated herein by reference and will be relied upon and
incorporated in any design and/or drainage control plans approved by the City
of Franklin. A copy of the most recent edition of said manual will be
maintained at the office of the City Clerk and the Planning and Zoning Office,
and will be available on the City of Franklin’s website. In addition to any
other requirements in this code, to the extent required by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, Department for Environmental Protection, a permit shall be obtained
from the Commonwealth of Kentucky and submitted to the City of Franklin prior
to beginning any development, construction, redesign, redevelopment, or
rehabilitation of any new or existing storm water detention or drainage
facility.
   (B)   Release rate. The controlled release rate of stormwater runoff from
all developments described in §
150.19 shall not exceed the pre-development peak rate for a storm event of
given frequency and duration. The rate at which stormwater runoff is delivered
to a designated stormwater storage area shall be unrestricted. In the event the
natural downstream channel or storm sewer system is inadequate to accommodate
the release rate provided above, then the allowable release rate shall be
reduced to that rate permitted by the capacity of the downstream channel or
storm sewer system.
   (C)   Development design.
      (1)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to minimize the velocity of overland
flow and allow maximum opportunity for infiltration of stormwater into the
ground, and to preserve and utilize existing and planned streams, channels and
detention basins, and include, whenever possible, streams and floodplain within
parks and other public grounds.
      (2)   Consideration must be given in the preparation of development
drainage plans to preclude adverse impacts due to higher rates and volumes of
flow that will occur during construction.
   (D)   Detention. The increased stormwater runoff resulting from the proposed
development may be accommodated by the provision of appropriate detention
facilities including wet or dry bottom reservoirs, flat roofs, parking lots,
underground vaults, road embankment, recreation area or streets. The following
shall govern the design of detention facilities.
      (1)   Storage volume. The volume of storage potential provided in
detention facilities shall be sufficient to control the excess stormwater
runoff, from the site in its developed state for the two year, five year, ten
year, 25 year, 50 year, and 100 year design storms frequency rainfalls as
published by the U.S. Weather Bureau. The allowable stormwater release rate
from the detention facilities shall not be exceeded regardless of the depth of
stormwater contained in the required stormwater detention facility.
      (2)   Release rate. At no time during the design storm shall the
stormwater runoff release rate exceed the allowable release rate as set forth
in division (B) above.
      (3)   Release velocity. Detention facilities shall release stormwater at
a non-erosive velocity. Protected channels receiving detention discharge shall
incorporate features to reduce velocity to non-erosive levels at the point
where such discharge enters the unprotected channel. If release is into a
subsurface conduit, the energy gradient in the receiving facility shall not be
increased beyond the slope of the conduit.
      (4)   Spillway. Emergency spillways shall be provided to permit the safe
passage of runoff generated from a 100-year, 24-hour storm or greater if
required by state law.
      (5)   Freeboard. Detention facilities shall have adequate capacity to
contain the storage volume of tributary stormwater runoff with at least one
foot of freeboard above the water surface of flow in the emergency spillway in
a 100-year, 24-hour storm or as required by state law.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 2023-022, passed 6-26-2023; Ord. 2024-
005, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 150.22 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Stormwater channel location. Generally acceptable locations of
stormwater channels in the design of a subdivision may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Adjacent to roadways;
      (2)   In a depressed median of a double roadway, street or parkway
provided the median is wide enough to permit slopes of one foot drop in six
feet horizontal or flatter;
      (3)   Centered on lot lines or entirely within the real yards of a single
row of lots or parcels;
      (4)   In each of the foregoing cases, a drainage easement with sufficient
width (typically 20') to facilitate maintenance and design flow shall be
provided and shown on the plat;
      (5)   If it is deemed to be appropriate by the design engineer to
discharge concentrated surface water on an adjoining property at a location
other than a natural or human-made drainage way, a written agreement between
the parties or a general release, or an easement should be obtained for
allowing the condition to exist; and
      (6)   The owner or developer may discharge storm water which has not been
concentrated into a lower lying property, if the post-development peak rate
does not exceed the pre-development peak rate and if the increase in volume
caused by the development will not have an adverse impact on the lower lying
property or if the landowner(s) of the lower lying property is made aware that
the peak rate and/or volume for storm water has increased and agrees to accept
the additional storm water and any and all imposed conditions. In the latter
situation, the landowner(s) receiving the increase peak rate and/or volume
increase and the developer and owner shall provide an agreement to the city
stating said agreement, in a writing approved by the city, which writing shall
include, in addition to the lower lying property owner’s consent, language
which releases the City of Franklin and the Franklin-Simpson Planning and
Zoning Office/Commission from all liabilities occurring from said stormwater
and/or the provisions of said agreement and a provision indemnifying the City
of Franklin and the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Office/Commission from
any losses or damages as a result of the stormwater flow.
   (B)   Storm sewer outfall. The storm sewer outfall shall be designed to
provide adequate protection against downstream erosion and scouring.
   (C)   Detention basin.
      (1)   Some major detention structures may also be required to comply with
additional commonwealth design criteria.
      (2)   The facility shall be protected form soil erosion during all
probable flow conditions imposed by the design storms.
      (3)   Unlined spillways shall be placed on either undisturbed ground or
on a stabilized foundation and not on fill material.
      (4)   Side slopes for grassed areas shall not be steeper than two to one
(horizontal: vertical).
      (5)   The earthen side slopes of retention basins (permanent ponds)
steeper than three to one shall be protected from erosion using a rip rap layer
one foot thick or other suitable material extending from a level three feet
below the permanent pool design elevation to the maximum water surface
elevation determined during routing of the ten-year, one-hour design storm
runoff.
      (6)   Where possible, the shape of the basin shall conform to the natural
topography.
      (7)   Where detention/retention basins are planned to be within 300 feet
of a residence or recreational area, additional design criteria shall be
considered so as not to create a potential or actual health or safety hazard.
The following are possible requirements:
         (a)   Landscaping and/or fences;
         (b)   Trash racks and barriers to prevent entrance into the inlet and
outlet structures;
         (c)   Grading to prevent steep drop-offs; and
         (d)   Signs to alert persons that the basin will flood during heavy
rains.
      (8)   Control devices subject to theft or vandalism shall be adequately
protected (bolted, heavy duty chain and lock and the like).
      (9)   Railing of fences shall be placed around the tope edge of inlet and
outlet structures where the drop is equal to or greater than three and one-half
feet.
      (10)   Grass bottoms in detention basins shall be designed with minimum
slopes of 2% to promote adequate surface drainage.
      (11)   Where multiple-purpose use of the detention/retention area is
planned or poor draining soils are found, provisions for adequate low flow
drainage may be required.
      (12)   Detention/retention basins having permanent pool may be provided
with a drain pipe and a suitable gate or valve located at the upstream end of
the drain pipe. The drain pipe and valve shall be so configured to permit
complete draining of the basin.
      (13)   To provide a maintenance access, the following requirements shall
be satisfied:
         (a)   Unobstructed access ways shall be designed and shown on plans
and constructed with the facility;
         (b)   The length of the access way from public right-of-way shall be
minimized;
         (c)   Multiple accesses may be required;
         (d)   Grading of access ways to facilities should leave slopes which
are not too steep (five to one maximum) to accommodate maintenance vehicles;
and
         (e)   Detention/retention facilities requiring review by state
agencies will have at least one all weather access roadway to include a minimum
ten feet wide surface to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
      (14)   Underground box chambers for temporary storage of storm water
shall be provided with more than one access point for ventilation and cleaning.
Rectangular chambers shall have a minimum height of 36 inches to facilitate
maintenance. Underground circular chambers shall have minimum height of 36
inches.
      (15)   Water-tight pipe shall be provided on all outlet where the 25-year
design storm headwater exceeds twice the diameter of the pipe. The use of anti-
seep collars shall be evaluated when the headwater exceeds six feet.
   (D)   Sinkhole drainage areas.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         IMMEDIATE SINKHOLE DRAINAGE AREA. Any area that contributes surface
water directly to the sinkhole(s); this does not include areas which contribute
surface water indirectly to a sinkhole (via streams).
         SINKHOLE. Any closed depression formed by removal (typically
underground of water, surficial soil, rock or other material). The existence of
a sinkhole shall be as indicated by the closed depression contour lines on
topographic maps or other documents. Its actual limits may, however, be
determined by field measurements with concurrence of the city’s Drainage
Coordinator. SINKHOLES may be either circular in plan or irregular depending
upon structural control.
         SINKHOLE CLUSTER AREA. Any area that contributes surface water other
than by way of a stream to a sinkhole which is located in a group of two or
more sinkholes clustering together.
      (2)   (a)   Plan requirements. A sinkhole, the immediate sinkhole
drainage area, a sinkhole cluster area or portions of such items shall be shown
on any development or preliminary subdivision plan for land where they exist.
Sinkhole related non-buildable areas and restricted fill area shall be shown on
final subdivision plans and development plans.
         (b)   Sinkhole related non-buildable areas. Based upon the topography,
geology, soils and known history of the sinkhole (such as past filling) and the
developer’s engineer’s storm water analysis and plan, the city’s Drainage
Coordinator shall establish sinkhole related non-buildable areas. No buildings,
parking areas or other structures shall be permitted, within the sinkhole
related non-buildable area. This non-buildable area shall follow the limits of
the sinkhole in most cases; however, the non-buildable area may be expanded or
contracted by action of the city where warranted due to the nature of the
specific sinkhole, the underlying geology, soils, drainage and any related
information such as depth to bedrock. In sinkhole cluster areas, the city may
require the developer to provide recommendations from a consulting engineer and
a consulting hydro-geologist based upon substantial and state-of-the-art field
studies and evaluation of the specific sinkhole system. Such studies will be
reviewed by the city’s Drainage Coordinator.
         (c)   Development in sinkhole drainage areas. Development may occur in
the immediate sinkhole drainage area if the developer provides alternative
surface drainage away from the sinkhole, while keeping the water in the same
surface drainage basin, and provided further that the water shall not go into
another sinkhole drainage area off the petitioner property, nor into another
stream of known flooding problems. The immediate sinkhole drainage area (or
portion thereof) which cannot be provided with an alternative drainage system
can be deleted from the development area and be used to meet the normal open
space requirements. For portions of the immediate sinkhole drainage area where
alternative surface drainage methods cannot be provided, as determined by the
city’s Drainage Coordinator, the developer may choose one of the following
options:
         (d)   Sinkhole surface drainage analyses. The sinkhole can be used for
surface runoff drainage of a proposed development if the conditions of either
of the following alternatives are met:
            1.   Alternative 1: A sinkhole can be used for surface runoff of a
proposed development with or without retention or detention facilities as
recommended by a consulting engineer and a consulting hydro-geologist; provided
that any increase in the quantity of surface runoff due to development of the
entire sinkhole drainage area in question will not aggravate flooding on the
proposed development adjacent existing development, or connected/adjacent
sinkhole subsurface systems. Such engineering and geological report must be
substantive and based on state-of-the-art field studies and evaluation of the
specific sinkhole system. The city shall not approve development proposals
subject to Alternative 1 provisions unless the study findings meet the
requirements of this division (D)(2)(d)(1).
            2.   Alternative 2: A sinkhole can be used for surface drainage of
a proposed development if all of the following conditions and provisions are
met:
               a.   That the runoff from the development area is either:
completely retained in a retention basin; or retained in a detention basin. The
flow rate out of the above basins shall be regulated so that it is no greater
than the flow rate into the sinkhole of the development area prior to
development for each of the following storms: ten-year/one-hour; 25- year/24-
hour storm; or a 100-year/one-hour storm. The outflow rate shall not aggravate
flooding on downstream properties for any of these storms;
               b.   As previously noted, the developer may elect to divert
enough of the sinkhole drainage area so that the development of the remaining
area does not increase the total quantity of runoff into the sinkhole. where
additional runoff is anticipated, a consulting engineer and a hydro-geologist
shall evaluate and show the effect of any additional quantity of runoff to the
sinkhole and sinkhole system. For approval, the study must show the development
will not aggravate flooding on the proposed development, adjacent lands or
connected/adjacent sinkhole systems; and
               c.   Where the sinkhole outlet is offsite, either the runoff
leaving the subject property must be shown to be no greater in flow or in
quantity than that which existed before development or written approvals must
be submitted from owners of the property where any increase in flow or quantity
of water must go to reach the sinkhole outlet. Easement areas shall be approved
by the city, based upon the developer’s engineer calculations of proposed
ponding elevation.
         (e)   Filling in sinkhole drainage areas. Development may involve some
filling of the sinkhole drainage area or sinkhole upon approval by the city’s
Drainage Coordinator; however, no principal or accessory buildings with soil
bearing foundations shall be permitted to be constructed on fill within the
limits of any sinkhole.
         (f)   Required Plan notes. For any land which includes a sinkhole
related non-buildable area, or restricted fill area, the developer shall place
the following note on the final subdivision plan or development plan: based
upon the evidence presented, the city has identified sinkhole related non-
buildable areas on this plan; however, approval of this plan is not be
interpreted as any guarantee that future sinkhole problems will not occur due
to either natural or human activities.
      (3)   The following notes may be required in whole or part by the city
depending upon the nature of the sinkhole and the method of treatment (if any)
constructed by the developer:
         (a)   Any sinkhole related non-buildable area identified here has been
determined to be unsuitable for any construction activity, and no buildings,
parking areas or other structures shall be permitted within this area.
         (b)   Any sinkhole or restricted fill area identified here has been
determined to be unsuitable for soil bearing foundations, and the entire
structure of any building (including the floor system) constructed therein must
be founded on solid rock.
         (c)   No basement or first floor elevations shall be lower than an
elevation, USGS datum, to be determined on a case-by-case basis, said elevation
being at least one foot above the 100-year 24-hour storm assuming no outflow
from the sinkhole.
      (4)   Based upon the facts of each case, additional notes may be required
or the above language modified as deemed appropriate by the city.
   (E)   Lot lines. Whenever the plans call for the passage and/or storage of
stormwater runoff along lot lines, the grading of all such lots shall be
prescribed and established for the passage and/or storage of waters, and no
structure or vegetation which would obstruct the flow of stormwater shall be
allowed, nor shall any change be made to the prescribed grades and contours of
the specified stormwater channels.
   (F)   Manholes. All utility sewer manholes constructed in an area designed
for the storage or passage of stormwater, shall be provided with either a
water-tight manhole cover or be constructed with a rim elevation of a minimum
of one foot above the high water elevation of the design storm.
   (G)   Easement. Permanent easements for the detention and conveyance of
stormwater, including easements of access to structures and facilities shall be
maintained by the developer, owner, Homeowners’ Association, or other person or
entity approved by the city unless other acceptable maintenance plans are
approved by the city.
   (H)   Obstruction of drainage. The keeping of disposal of grass clippings,
trash, debris, obstructions or unwanted materials into the storm sewers or
within or along stormwater channels or in adjacent flood plain areas which may
wash into sewers and channels is prohibited.
   (I)   Permits required for construction within floodplains. Construction
within floodplains will require authorization by the city, Commonwealth Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet (including FEMA) and the U.S.
Army Crops of Engineers, where applicable. Each agency should be consulted well
in advance of construction for assistance in completing the required permits.
   (J)   Maintenance. Provisions acceptable to the city for perpetual
maintenance of detention facilities, outlet works and appurtenances shall be
made, as provided in §
150.24.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 2023-022, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 150.23 PERFORMANCE BONDS AND OTHER ASSURANCES FOR COMPLETION AND OPERATION OF
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS.
   Upon approval of the Stormwater Management Plan, but before the issuance of
a building permit or subdivision plat approval, the city shall require the
applicant to post a performance bond, cash escrow, certified check or other
acceptable form of performance security in an amount sufficient to ensure the
execution of the plan. After determination by the city’s Drainage Coordinator
that all facilities are constructed in compliance with the approved plan, the
performance bond or other securities shall be released.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.24 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   A maintenance agreement, approved by the City Manager or his or her
designee assuring perpetual maintenance of stormwater management improvements
shall be executed by the city and the applicant. A Stormwater Maintenance
Agreement (SWMA) should be an integral component of the stormwater management
plan.
   (B)   As a minimum, the SWMA should address the following activities:
      (1)   Structural repairs, such as bank stabilization, pump repair or pipe
replacement;
      (2)   Dredging operations to remove sediment accumulations;
      (3)   Debris removal to ensure inflow and discharge of stormwater;
      (4)   “Housekeeping” maintenance, such as grass cutting, weed removal,
fence repair and litter removal; and
      (5)   Mosquito control, e.g., spraying, fish stocking, and vegetation
control.
   (C)   The SWMA should also assign maintenance responsibilities among
involved parties (homeowners, municipality, park or school district and the
like).
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994; Ord. 2023-022, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 150.25 RESERVED.
§ 150.26 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the
city.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.27 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Standards. Variations from these standards, provisions and
specifications may be granted when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the City Commission that, owing to special conditions, a strict adherence to
the provisions of this subchapter will result in unnecessary hardship and that
the spirit and intent of this subchapter will be observed.
   (B)   Procedure. A request for variation shall be filed by the owner,
seeking to develop or change the use of his or her property, or his or her
agent with the city’s Drainage Coordinator who shall refer it, together with
his or her recommendation, to the City Commission for decision. The request for
variation shall be written and shall state specifically what variation is
sought and the public’s interest in granting the variation.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.28 OFFICIAL MAPS AND PROFILES.
   Responsibility for all changes to official maps and profiles remain with the
City Commission.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.29 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, the provision
expressed herein shall be held to be the minimum requirements and shall be
liberally construed in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes or exercised by home
rule units.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The City’s Drainage Coordinator shall be responsible for determining
whether the Stormwater Management Plan is in conformance with requirements
specified in §§
150.19 through
150.22, and whether development is proceeding in accordance with the approved
Stormwater Management Plan. Periodic inspection of the development site shall
be made by the city’s Drainage Coordinator to ensure that the Stormwater
Management Plan is properly implemented.
   (B)   The city’s Drainage Coordinator and other duly authorized employees
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation and measurement, in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Work suspension. In the event that a developer fails to file and have
approved a Stormwater Management Plan, or if work performed does not conform to
the provisions of the approved Stormwater Management Plan and specifications, a
written notice to comply shall be served upon the developer. Such notice shall
set forth the nature of the correction required and the time within which
corrections shall be made. Failure to comply with such notice shall result in
the issuance of a stop-work order applicable to all construction activity
except that necessary for correction of the violation. Upon correction of the
violation, the stop-work order shall be voided and construction may resume. The
city may further file an action to enjoin further work to be performed until
such time as the developer complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Bond forfeiture.
      (1)   In the event of continued violation of the approved Stormwater
Management Plan, a public hearing on the matter shall be conducted by the City
Commission.
      (2)   Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon the developer
by registered mail, and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint; and
         (b)   The time and place such hearing is to be held.
      (3)   Such notice shall be served at least 15 days prior to the date set
for the hearing. At any such hearing, the developer shall be given an
opportunity to be heard, and he or she may call witnesses and present evidence
on his or her behalf. After such hearing, if the City Commission concludes that
the issuance of additional correction notices would be futile, any bonds or
cash deposits posted with the city shall be forfeited, whereupon said security
shall be sued for completion of the stormwater management plan as approved.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $500, and in addition thereto shall be held liable for all court costs and
attorney fees incurred by the city in enforcing this chapter. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation
or occurs or continues.
(Ord. 980.2-9-94, passed 8-24-1994)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
Building Regulations
   
151.01   Fire zone
   
151.02   Show house; exits
State Building Code
   
151.15   Building Code adopted
   
151.16   Enforcement
   
151.17   Conflict
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 151.01 FIRE ZONE.
   (A)   The section of the city surrounding the public square and one block
therefrom in each direction, which is bounded on the north by Washington
Street; on the east by Water Street; on the South by Madison Street and on the
West by High Street is declared to be one fire zone.
   (B)   No building or buildings or structures shall be built or erected or
constructed within the fire zone or area above specified, unless its walls and
sides are constructed of brick, concrete, iron, steel or some other
nonflammable substance, and the building is covered with tin, metal, slate or
some other nonflammable substance.
   (C)   Before erecting any building within the area, the owner of any
property or the person erecting the building shall file with the Commission a
petition for a permit together with plans and specifications for the buildings,
and obtain a permit to erect the building or structure from the Commission.
(1980 Code, § 950.2-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 SHOW HOUSE; EXITS.
   No person shall permit any public theatrical show, circus show, moving
picture show, skating or any public exhibition of any kind for which an
admission is charged to be given in any public hall or room in the city, if the
hall or room is not furnished with a front door exit. The front door and rear
door shall be so swung as to open outwardly and the two openings or doors shall
lead from the audience room of the hall. Each exit both front and rear shall be
not less than four feet wide.
(1980 Code, § 950.2-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The 2015 International Building Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120
by the Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the Commonwealth, is
hereby adopted as the mandatory building code for all buildings constructed in
the city, except that the Kentucky amendments in the 2018 Kentucky Building
Code shall supersede any conflicting provision in the 2015 International
Building Code. These codes are incorporated herein by reference and adopted in
full as an ordinance of the city as if set out at length herein. The city
further adopts and incorporates herein by reference any and all changes and
amendments made, from time to time, by the Board of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction to the mandatory building code(s) for the Commonwealth
(hereinafter referred to collectively as the “State Building Code”) whether set
forth in 815 KAR 7:120 or otherwise.
   (B)   A copy of current State Building Code together with a copy of all
other regulations or NFPA Pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, shall be
kept in the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Office, and that office shall
at all times keep and maintain a current copy of said building code for public
reference.
   (C)   An attested copy of this subchapter shall be transmitted to the
Department Housing, Buildings and Construction of the Commonwealth to the
extent necessary or required.
(Ord. 950.4, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020)
§ 151.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Commission, by and through the
local City/County Building Inspector shall be designated local enforcement
agent/agency for the State Building Code and State Residential Code. The local
City/County Building Inspector shall serve as the inspector and/or on-site
inspector for all applicable structure plan reviews and/or inspections made in
accordance with any and all state and/or local ordinances, resolutions, rules
or regulations, and the City/County Building Inspector’s duties shall include,
but not be limited to plan review and inspections of all commercial and
residential structures to the extent permitted or allowed by the Commonwealth
and this subchapter. Provided, however, that the local City/County Building
Inspector shall not conduct plan reviews and inspections on the following: all
buildings, structures, or property classified as High-Hazard Group H under all
applicable sections of the State Building Code including, but not limited to
Section 307 of said code; and all buildings, structures, and property
classified as Institutional Group I-1, I-2, and I-3 under all applicable
sections of the State Building Code including, but not limited to Sections 308
and 408 of said code.
(Ord. 950.4, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020)
§ 151.17 CONFLICT.
   All ordinances, or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
(Ord. 950.4, passed 7-27-1981)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.01 or
151.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $5 or more than $100 for each offense.
(1980 Code, § 950.2-3)
CHAPTER 152: CODES ADOPTED
Section
   
152.01   Residential Code and inspections
§ 152.01 RESIDENTIAL CODE AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The 2015 International Residential Code for One (1) and Two (2) Family
Dwellings (IRC) shall be the mandatory city residential building code for all
single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and townhouses constructed in
the city, except that the Kentucky amendments in the 2018 Residential Code
shall supersede any conflicting provision in the 2015 IRC (hereinafter referred
to collectively as the “Residential Code”). The Residential Code is
incorporated herein by reference and adopted in full as an ordinance of the
city as if set out in length herein. Further, any subsequent changes or
amendments to the Residential Code made by the Board of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction or other duly authorized agency or body is hereby adopted for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories in height in the city, and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of such Residential Code, and/or subsequent
revisions thereto, shall be kept on file in the Franklin-Simpson Planning and
Zoning Office, and that office shall at all times keep and maintain a current
copy of said Residential Code for public reference.
   (B)   In accordance with KRS 198B.060(1), permits, inspections, and
certificates of occupancy shall be required for a single-family residence or
dwelling, with the costs of said permits, inspections, and certificates of
occupancy being set forth in Ordinance 2019-24 and/or by and through other
ordinances, resolutions, or regulations.
   (C)   All residential occupancies that are not single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings, or townhouses shall comply with the provisions of §
151.15 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 950.5-2002, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 153: ELECTRICAL CODE; INSPECTIONS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   National Electrical Code adopted
   
153.03   Liability of individuals, city, Electric Plant Board and Planning and
Zoning Commission
   
153.04   Revocation of license and registration for noncompliance
   
153.05   Licensed and registered contractor required
   
153.06   Inspections
   
153.07   Certification of Electrical Inspectors
   
153.08   Preparation for inspection; concealed work
   
153.09   Inspection fees
   
153.10   Voluntary inspections
   
153.11   Miscellaneous electrical provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPRENTICE ELECTRICIAN. Any person licensed and/or registered with the city
as an employee of an electrical contractor who is in the process of learning
the electrical trade who assists and is under the supervision of a licensed
master electrician and/or a licensed journeyman electrician.
   CEU. Continuing education units relating to electrical codes or electrical
safety and are approved by the commonwealth, the National Fire Protection
Association and/or the city by and through the Electrical Inspector.
   CITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. All buildings other than dwelling occupancies, but not
buildings used in connection with dwelling occupancies; however, dwelling
occupancies attached to commercial buildings will be considered as a commercial
building.
   COUNTY. The County of Simpson, Kentucky.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any individual, partnership or corporation that
engages in the business of or employs others for the construction, alteration
or repair of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing light,
heat or power.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Conductors and equipment installed for the utilization
of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, but does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sound or signals, and does not
include apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed for or by the
Electrical Plant Board.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. A person certified by the Commissioner of Housing,
Buildings and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who is designated or
appointed by and on behalf of the City Commission and Mayor, to perform all
inspections within the city limits of the city and/or within the service area
of the Electric Plant Board to inspect the construction and installation of
electrical conductors, fittings, devices and fixtures for light, heat or power
service equipment to ascertain the compliance with the National Electrical Code
incorporated in the Uniform State Building Code promulgated pursuant to KRS
198B.050 or the standards of safety of the commonwealth or the city.
   ELECTRIC SERVICE PROVIDER. The Electric Plant Board, Warren Rural Electric
Cooperative Corporation or any other provider of electricity.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. Any person licensed and/or registered by the city
who has three or more years’ experience performing electrical work under the
supervision, direction, and responsibility of a licensed and registered master
electrician.
   LICENSE. A valid City of Franklin, Kentucky business license.
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. A person or entity licensed and/or registered by the
city with five or more years’ experience or a certificate or diploma from a
certified school accredited by the Department of Labor, in the discretion of
the Electrical Inspector, or a combination of the two. A vocational school
diploma will count as two years’ experience for the purpose of this definition.
   P&Z, PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION or FRANKLIN-SIMPSON PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION. The Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Commission of Franklin,
Simpson County, Kentucky.
   PLACES OF ASSEMBLY. The following structures:
      (1)   Armories;
      (2)   Assembly halls;
      (3)   Auditoriums;
      (4)   Auditoriums within:
         (a)   Business establishments;
         (b)   Mercantile establishments;
         (c)   Other occupancies; and
         (d)   Schools.
      (5)   Bowing lanes;
      (6)   Church chapels;
      (7)   Club rooms;
      (8)   Conference rooms;
      (9)   Court rooms;
      (10)   Dance halls;
      (11)   Dining facilities;
      (12)   Exhibit halls;
      (13)   Gymnasiums;
      (14)   Mortuary chapels;
      (15)   Multipurpose rooms;
      (16)   Museums;
      (17)   Place of awaiting transportation;
      (18)   Pool rooms;
      (19)   Restaurants;
      (20)   Skating rinks; or
      (21)   All buildings or portions of buildings or structures designed or
intended for the assembly of 25 or more persons.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.02 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted pursuant to the applicable sections of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes and the State Building Code, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the installation, maintenance and repair of
electrical wiring, apparatus or equipment for light, heat or power inside or
attached to buildings within the jurisdiction of the city, or attached to the
service company’s lines, a certain code known as the National Electric Code
NFPA 70, the edition of which is adopted by and through the State Building
Code, a copy of which shall be kept on file in the Planning and Zoning Office
for public review. In the event that this edition of the National Electrical
Code is revised subsequent to the adoption of this chapter, the city hereby
adopts the most recent publication or edition of the National Electrical Code.
Further, all structures shall be inspected by the local Electrical Inspector
using the edition of the National Electrical Code that was in existence as of
the date the permit for the structure to be inspected was obtained.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020)
§ 153.03 LIABILITY OF INDIVIDUALS, CITY, ELECTRIC PLANT BOARD AND PLANNING AND
ZONING COMMISSION.
   This chapter shall not be construed to receive from nor lessen the
responsibility of any person, owning, operating or installing any electrical
wires, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for damages to anyone
injured by the defect therein, nor shall the city, Electric Plant Board,
Planning and Zoning Commission or any agent thereof be held as assuming any
such liability by reason of inspection authorized in this chapter or the
certificate of approval issued by the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The license and registration of an electrical contractor or electrician who
consistently does work which is not in accordance with this chapter may be
rescinded and revoked by the Commission of the city upon recommendation by the
Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.05 LICENSED AND REGISTERED CONTRACTOR REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector shall approve only work done by electrical
contractors or electricians who are licensed and registered by the city or the
property owner as set forth in §
153.06(D) to do business in the city and/or within the service area of the
Electric Plant Board. Effective January 1, 2003, all electrical contractors,
employees or agents of electrical contractors or independent electricians shall
be registered with the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   In order to maintain a valid registration, the electrical contractor/
independent electrician or their or his or her agents and employees must
provide the following to the Planning and Zoning Commission on an annual basis:
      (1)   A “master electrician” (as that term is defined in §
153.01) must provide and/or comply with the following:
         (a)   Proof of liability insurance or proof of adequate self-
insurance;
         (b)   Proof of workers’ compensation insurance (where applicable);
         (c)   Proof of six hours of approved CEU per year for continuing
education;
         (d)   Pay an annual registration fee of $100;
         (e)   Provide a physical address and phone number;
         (f)   Proof of city business license; and
         (g)   Meet and/or provide proof of compliance with the requirements of
a “master electrician” set forth in §
153.01.
      (2)   A “journeyman electrician” (as that term is defined in §
153.01) must provide and/or comply with the following:
         (a)   Meet and/or provide proof of compliance with the requirements of
a “journeyman electrician” set forth in §
153.01;
         (b)   Proof of six hours of approved CEU per year for continuing
education; and
         (c)   Pay an annual registration fee of $50.
   (3)   An “apprentice electrician” (as that term is defined in §
153.01) must provide and/or comply with the following:
         (a)   Meet and/or provide proof of compliance with the requirements of
an “apprentice electrician” set forth in §
153.01;
         (b)   Proof of six hours of approved CEU per year for continuing
education; and
         (c)   Pay an annual registration fee of $25.
   (C)   All requirements for registration must be completed before the
registration is initially issued; however, electrical contractors/electricians
and their agents or employees shall have one year from the date of the adoption
of this chapter to complete the continuing education requirements. Thereafter,
all requirements for the registration must be provided to the Planning and
Zoning Commission prior to the renewal registration being issued. All
requirements for registration shall be paid/provided no later than January 31
of each calendar year. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall maintain files
on all electrical contractors/independent electricians and their or his or her
agents and employees and shall be responsible for the issuance and enforcement
of the registrations as set forth in this chapter. In addition, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall retain the registration fees for the administration
of this chapter.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall appoint, designate and/or provide an Electrical
Inspector to perform all inspections within the city limits and/or the service
area of the Electric Plant Board to assure compliance with the city’s
electrical regulations/ordinances. Prior to connecting to any electrical
service from any electrical provider on new constructions/wiring and/or for all
wiring/electrical modifications to existing electric service within the city
and/or the service area of the Electric Plant Board, the person or entity to
whom the permit(s) is/are issued shall pay all fees required by this ordinance
and be required to allow the city’s designated Electrical Inspector to perform
all inspections within the city and/or the service area of the Electric Plant
Board. The Electrical Inspector shall not allow any new constructions/wiring
and/or wiring/electrical modifications to existing wiring to pass a final
inspection unless and until said new construction/wiring and/or wiring/
electrical modifications to existing wiring complies with all applicable
provisions of this chapter, including, but limited to payment of all required
license, registration and/or permit fees.
   (B)   The city authorizes the Planning and Zoning Commission (hereinafter
referred to as “P&Z”) to be the agency to make or provide for all electrical
inspections and collect fees, as provided herein, for electrical inspections in
the city and/or Electric Plant Board’s service area. All fees and compensation
for said inspections shall be paid by the electrical contractor or electrician
who installed the electrical wiring or by the owner of the property in which
the inspections shall be made and no part thereof shall be paid by the city,
the Electrical Inspector or P&Z. All electrical inspection fees shall be
assessed and remitted to P&Z as provided herein, who shall forward the fees
generated from inspections inside the city limits and/or inside the Electric
Plant Board service area to the City Finance Officer at least monthly except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   All fees for electrical inspections shall be paid at the office of the
P&Z. Any notices to the Electrical Inspector may be delivered to the same
office.
   (D)   Applications for inspections must be on forms furnished by the
Electrical Inspector, which may be obtained from P&Z. The completed
applications shall be taken to the applicable electric provider (i.e., WRECC or
EPB) by the applicant and should be returned to P&Z by the Electrical Inspector
once the inspection is completed. Inspection fees must accompany the
application. Only licensed and registered electrical contractors/electricians
that are also “master electricians” (as that term is defined) or the property
owner can sign an application; however, if the application is signed by the
property owner, the work shall be completed by the property owner, his or her
designee pre-approved by the Electrical Inspector, or a licensed and registered
contractor(s)/electrician(s) that are also “master electricians” (as that term
is defined in §
153.01).
   (E)   All fees paid for electrical inspections shall inure to the benefit of
the city, except as provided in this chapter. The Inspector shall be an
employee of the city for inspections inside the city limits and outside the
city limits but within the Electric Plant Board service area. Further, the city
shall provide the Electrical Inspector with cellular service to facilitate his
or her duties. The city shall also pay one-half of all education and training
costs necessary for the Electrical Inspector to maintain his or her
certification.
   (F)   All inspection notices and permits and wiring permits are
nontransferable and can only be used by those persons or entities to whom
issued. Written releases shall be obtained from electrical contractors who fail
to complete a project before another electrical contractor can complete the
project.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.07 CERTIFICATION OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS.
   All Electrical Inspectors are to be certified as required by KRS 227.450 et
seq.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.08 PREPARATION FOR INSPECTION; CONCEALED WORK.
   (A)   The electrical contractor or electrician installing electrical wiring
for which inspection is required shall notify the Electrical Inspector when the
project is ready for inspection.
   (B)   No electrical contractor or electrician or individual shall conceal
electrical wiring or other electrical apparatus which is required to be
inspected until after it has been inspected and approved. Concealed work which
will not permit full inspection shall not be accepted.
   (C)   All electrical work shall be finished and ready for service before
final inspection.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.09 INSPECTION FEES.
   The following fee schedule for electrical service is adopted.
   (A)   Residential (includes change of service and new service): all new
houses will require a minimum of two inspections, the rough-inspection and the
final inspection. Fees for both inspections are the same.
New Service (Rough In and Final Inspection)
New Service (Rough In and Final Inspection)
Up to and including 400-amp $50 per trip
Over 400 amps               Same as commercial in division (B) below
Change of service           $50 per trip
Mobile homes                $50 per trip
Temporary pole              $50 per trip
Rewire and remodel          $50 per trip
Reinspection                Same as above fees
 
   (B)   Commercial and industrial: commercial fees shall be the same as
residential for 400 amp service or less. For greater than 400-amp service, the
fees shall be 1.3% of the electrical contract.
   (C)   A wiring permit shall be required to be issued for any wiring job. For
the purposes of this section, WIRING JOB shall mean any change to existing
wiring or new wiring requiring an inspection under any provision of this
chapter. The wiring permit fee shall be $10 and shall be retained by the
Planning and Zoning Commission for administration costs. Only licensed and
registered electricians and/or contractors that are also “master electricians”
(as that term is defined in § 153.01) or property owners may apply for a wiring
permit.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.10 VOLUNTARY INSPECTIONS.
   A customer, at his or her request, any have inspected any change of existing
wiring for which inspection is not required. The fee for this inspection shall
be $50 per trip, and shall be paid by the customer. If the Inspector finds that
this change of wiring does not meet the requirements of the National Electrical
Code and/or this chapter, the electrical contractor/electrician shall be
required by the Electrical Inspector to rework the wiring until it complies
with all of the requirements of the National Electrical Code and this chapter,
and the cost of reinspection shall be borne by the electrical contractor/
electrician.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 153.11 MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All electrical contractors and/or electricians, when making a request
for temporary or construction power, shall provide the electric service
provider evidence that they have complied with all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Special permission shall be obtained from the superintendent of the
electric service provider or his or her designated agent prior to the breaking
of any seal of any metering equipment for the disconnecting of any conductor on
the line of the metering equipment.
   (C)   All commercial buildings as defined in §
153.01 shall be wired in conduit unless otherwise specified in this chapter or
the National Electrical Code.
   (D)   Under emergency conditions, subject to the discretion of the
superintendent of the electric service provider and the Electrical Inspector, a
temporary service connection may be granted where sufficient load is connected
for commercial buildings needing 3 phase power until a final inspection can be
made.
   (E)   Electrical contractors and electrical installers shall feed,
temporarily, new meter installations, load size, from existing metered
conductors until a permanent service drop can be made.
   (F)   If the Electrical Inspector finds, after an inspection, that the
electrical wiring of a commercial building or dwelling is a hazard, in the
discretion of the Electrical Inspector applying all applicable codes and/or
ordinances, the Electrical Inspector shall submit a detailed report of his or
her inspection to the superintendent of the electric service provider who shall
have the authority to disconnect the electrical service of the building or
dwelling until the hazard is abated.
   (G)   All electrical service connections are to be made by the electric
service provider only after inspection and approval of the installation is
given by the electric service provider for location and the Electrical
Inspector for compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   Non-metallic sheeted cable shall not be used in the following
structures:
      (1)   Any dwelling or structure exceeding three floors above grade or
ground level;
      (2)   As service entrance cable; and
      (3)   In places of assembly.
   (I)   Metal raceway shall be used in the following locations and/or
structures:
      (1)   In a Fire Zone, as fire zone is defined in this chapter;
      (2)   In commercial garages;
      (3)   In motion picture structures;
      (4)   In storage battery rooms;
      (5)   In hoist ways;
      (6)   In any “hazardous location” as that term is defined in the National
Electrical Code; and
      (7)   In any location that the National Electrical Code requires metal
raceway.
   (J)   All risers shall be a minimum two and one- half inch rigid metal or
intermediate metal conduit.
   (K)   The location of the service entrance to any building, structure or
dwelling shall be determined and set by the electric service provider prior to
beginning construction.
   (L)   All trenches for the installation of underground electrical service
entrance lines shall be a minimum of 48 inches deep. For underground electrical
service entrance lines and high voltage service lines, trench depth can be
reduced 12 inches for each one and one-half inches of concrete encasing said
electrical service and/or high voltage service lines.
   (M)   For underground services, the following guidelines shall apply.
      (1)   There shall be no more than three 90- degree elbows per service.
      (2)   Schedule 40 conduit: two and one-half inch shall be used for
services up to 400 amp single phase.
      (3)   If an electrical contractor is installing a service larger than
400-amp single phase services, the electrical contractor must contact the
Electrical Inspector, or his or her designee, for sizing, and said electrical
contractor must obtain written approval from Electrical Inspector prior to
installation.
      (4)   Electrical contractors shall connect the load side of the meter
base and furnish connectors.
      (5)   All trenches, conduit and pull rope installed by a customer or
electrical contractor must be inspected before the trench is covered and prior
to final electrical inspection. Any pull rope used must be a rope which is
tested to hold a minimum of 150 pounds.
      (6)   All conduits beneath roads, driveways, porch areas or other areas
subject to physical damage shall be Schedule 80 or encased in concrete.
   (N)   No building, patio or any other structure may be set over the service
or in front of meter(s).
   (O)   No meter shall be installed inside a building or structure.
   (P)   Any change of electrical service which requires an inspection by the
Electrical Inspector shall require the installation of an electrical smoke
detector with a backup battery system.
   (Q)   For oil insulated transformers, the following minimum standards shall
apply.
      (1)   For oil insulated transformers of 75 KVA or less, the oil insulated
transformer shall be located not less than three feet from any building and, in
addition, said transformer must be not less than three feet vertically and
three feet horizontally from any opening to the building.
      (2)   For oil insulated transformers from 76 KVA to 500 KVA, the oil
insulated transformer shall be located not less than 15 feet from a building
and/or 15 feet from a required exit.
      (3)   For oil insulated transformers 501 KVA and above, the oil insulated
transformer shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from buildings and required
exits.
      (4)   Exceptions may be granted for a lesser distance only after on-site
inspection is made and permission is granted in writing by Electrical
Inspector, with electrical contractor specifically following all alternate
safeguards and/or conditions required by an Electrical Inspector.
   (R)   In the event the Electrical Inspector determines the electrical
service to a structure makes the structure uninhabitable or unsafe for use, in
Electrical Inspector’s discretion, the Electrical Inspector shall have the
right to complete a full and thorough inspection of said structure. The
Electrical Inspector shall be empowered to issue any and all citations for
violations of this chapter.
   (S)   Any structure which has more than one electrical meter or a multi-
metering point must have a separate disconnect switch at each point of metering
which opens all ungrounded conductors.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to be fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 or imprisoned for 60
days or both.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to conform to any of the provisions of
§§
153.01 through
153.11, or failing to execute any order of the Electrical Inspector issued
pursuant to §§
153.01 through 153.12 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days or
both. Anywhere such violation is of a continuing nature, each day such person
violates any such provision or fails to conform to any such order, or fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 950.3-9-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose and findings
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.04   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.05   Establishment of development permit
   
154.06   Compliance
   
154.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.08   Interpretation
   
154.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.10   Enforcement, violation notice
   
154.11   Appeals and variance procedures
Administration
   
154.25   Designation of Local Administrator
   
154.26   Establishment of development permit
   
154.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   General construction standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
154.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
154.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
154.46   Critical facilities
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. The legislature of the commonwealth has in KRS Chapter 100
delegated to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed
to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Commission hereby adopts the following floodplain
management ordinance, as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundations which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by
the location in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
loss due to flooding by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
      (7)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in
a special flood hazard area; and
      (8)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination
of both. In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are
usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year flood, base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1, A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the “100-YEAR FLOOD”). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
flood waters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE.  The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and/or the flood boundary
floodway map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
154.11 that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of
the public. In examining this requirement, the City Commission will consider
the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100 years.
Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation
are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from floods,
while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are subject to
all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those increased flood
damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the property,
unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only
at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL.  The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a standard flood insurance policy under
the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish or remove the building. ICC coverage is
available on residential and nonresidential buildings (this category includes
public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries and municipal
buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250 - PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, ETC TO BE
APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION
CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued; however, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris or any other material,
or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building, barrier or
obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or stream or in
the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or obstruction will in
any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the floodway of the
stream, unless plans and specifications for such work have been submitted to
and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1)
above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMC’s include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA;
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features; and
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be met.
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE.  An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle”. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent Improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Franklin’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL.  Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVP). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). See BASE FLOOD. The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION.  A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood tosses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development. The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss. For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to occur when
the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building commences. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary or safely code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.03 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community official as determined by
the City Commission from available technical studies, historical information
and other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
City Commission which may be subject to periodic inundation by flood waters
that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.04 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for the county,
dated March 17, 2011, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and
for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation.
   (B)   This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of
this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Commission
by the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Commission pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations.
   (C)   The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on file
and available for review by the public during regular business hours in the
office of the City Clerk at City Hall.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
154.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.06 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable state regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the requirements (including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City Commission from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, the City Commission, any
officer or employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration or
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.10 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, the Floodplain Administrator, or
duly authorized or appointed employee, agent or representative thereof, has
reasonable cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which
is not in accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications thereof, the Floodplain Administrator, or duly
authorized or appointed employee, agent or representative thereof, shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, the Floodplain Administrator, or
duly authorized or appointed employee, agent or representative thereof, has
reasonable cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which
is not in accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications thereof, the Floodplain Administrator, or duly
authorized or appointed employee, agent or representative thereof, may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.11 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Commission to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Commission shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of the Franklin-Simpson Planning and
Zoning Board of Adjustments.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the County District Court, as provided in
state statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the Appeal Board need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the Appeal Board believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
154.02 under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
154.02) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of divisions (D)(1)
through (D)(11) above are satisfied, and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not
create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Clerk and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Commission hereby appoints the Building Inspector or his or her
designee to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by
granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and
is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
154.04. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of the local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §
154.41(B) and §
154.43(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and A
zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing, and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
154.04, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
154.40 through
154.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Commission for
adoption;
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
154.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
154.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
154.26(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
154.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
154.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
154.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
154.10.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
154.11(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
154.04, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
154.40 through
154.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
154.41(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain Administrator may enter
such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the
same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain Administrator by this
chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he/she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final termination
of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if (...missing material...).
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
154.04, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and duct work elevated no lower
than at/or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of §
154.41(C).
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at/or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit:
The applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross-sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross-section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not
occur, the Cabinet may require additional cross-sections or specific site
elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory
floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated at/or above the base flood elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by the Community Building Inspection Department to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
154.41(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at/or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
duct work, elevated no lower than at/or above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
154.26(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
154.41(D).
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood water. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin
I-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood water.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base flood
elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to
allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)    (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at/or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
154.04, are areas designated as floodways.
      (1)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and has
erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply: prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and
other developments unless certification (with supporting technical data) by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in the base flood elevation levels during
occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   If §
154.41(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements aud
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
154.40 through
154.46.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.04, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improve- ments of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
154.04.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.04, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is water- tight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
154.41(B).
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”,
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   The structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   It must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 990.1-2-2011, passed 2-28-2011)
CHAPTER 155: UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Unsafe structures
   
155.03   Unfit structures
   
155.04   Responsibility of occupants and owners
   
155.05   Occupancy standards
   
155.06   Rooming houses
   
155.07   Renting unfit or unsafe structure
   
155.08   Nuisances
   
155.09   Permitting, occupying and closing unsafe and unfit structures
   
155.10   Irreparable condition
   
155.11   Complaints and investigation
   
155.12   Condemnation notice and order
   
155.13   Enforcement of notice and order
   
155.14   Lien for costs
   
155.15   Serving, posting and recording notices and orders
   
155.16   Emergencies
   
155.17   Appeals
   
155.18   Variances
   
155.19   Alternative legal actions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any combination of materials, whether portable or fixed; which
comprises a structure affording facilities or shelter for any human occupancy,
whether infrequent or regular, including all dwellings and nonresidential
buildings. The word BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words “or
part or parts thereof and all equipment and contents therein”, unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEMOLISH. To destroy a building and to remove all debris and waste materials
from the lot on which the building stood.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used and includes any garages or other
accessory buildings belonging thereto.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with the facilities which are used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   EXTERMINATE. The control and elimination of vermin and other pests by
eliminating their harboring places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, and by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other legal methods.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used, or intended to be used,
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors,
closets or storage spaces.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OWNER. Any holder of any legal or equitable title in the subject premises,
whether alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not, and
shall further include any person who shall have charge, care or control of any
structure as owner, or as agent of the owner, or as fiduciary for the owner’s
estate.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associates and corporations who have a
mortgage or other interest of record in a structure or who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership
or trust.
   POTABLE WATER. Water approved by public health authorities as safe tor
drinking.
   PUBLIC RECORD. Deeds, mortgages and other instruments of record relating to
land titles.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or occupant to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
grandson or granddaughter, grandmother or grandfather, sister or brother of the
occupant.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. All waste materials, except garbage.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or gutters, except repair or replacement
of supporting members.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made combination of materials, including, but not
limited to, buildings, dwellings, stadiums, reviewing stands, platforms,
stagings, observation towers, swimming pools above and below grade, radio
towers, water tanks and towers, trestles, piers, wharves, sheds, coal bins,
shelters display signs, retaining walls, fences and excavations. The term
STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by the words “or part or parts
thereof and all equipment and contents therein” unless the context clearly
requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY PROVIDER. Any municipal or private utility supplying water,
electricity or natural gas.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.02 UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   The following conditions are hereby determined to be hazardous and shall
warrant a finding that a structure or its premises is unsafe:
   (A)   Structural hazards.
      (1)   Any structure whose walls or vertical members list, lean or buckle
to such an extent that a plumb line suspended from the top edge of such member
shall fall outside of a distance from the edge equal to one-third of the
thickness of such members;
      (2)   Any structure which has a support member or members which have
deteriorated to such an extent as to be unable to safely support the applied
loads or which have 40% damage or deterioration of the non-supporting, enclosed
or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Any structure which has improperly distributed loads upon the
floors or roofs or in which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   A stress in any materials, element or member of any structure, or
portion thereof, due to all dead and live loads, which is greater than the
working stresses allowed by the State Building Code or Fire Safety Standards.
      (5)   Any structure which has been damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
flood or other causes in such a manner that the structural stability or
strength thereof is appreciably less than the minimum requirements set forth by
the State Building Code for new construction of a similar structure;
      (6)   Any structure which has parts thereof so attached, dislodged or
detached that they may fall or collapse and injure persons or property;
      (7)   Any structure which has settled to such an extent that the walls or
other structural portions thereof have been displaced or distorted and rendered
structurally unstable or dangerous, or that the basic function of such element
has been impaired;
      (8)   Any structure which because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay,
faulty construction or the removal or movement of some portion of the ground
necessary for its support, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or
some portion of its foundation or under-pinning is likely to fall or give way;
      (9)   Any structure exclusive of its foundation, showing damage or
deterioration to 33% or more of its members, or 50% or more of its non-
supporting enclosing or outside wall or covering;
      (10)   Any structure which is for any reason whatsoever manifestly unsafe
for the purpose for which it is used or intended to be used;
      (11)   Any structure which has been so damaged by fire wind, earthquake,
flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated from any cause whatsoever,
as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play therein, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals, disorderly persons or others who
are not lawful occupants of such structure, or as to enable persons to resort
thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful or immoral acts;
      (12)   Any structure which when constructed was, and now exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition under city
building ordinances or other laws in effect at the time of such construction
relating to the location, use and physical condition of structures;
      (13)   Any structure which, whether or not originally erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, because of dilapidation,
deterioration, damage or other cause, has become 60 weakened or defective as to
have in any non-supporting-part member or portion, less than 50%, or in any
supporting member less than 66%, of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics required by law or ordinance in the case of new construction of
a similar structure;
      (14)   Any structure which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair or other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes,
contains or creates a fire hazard; and
      (15)   Any structure which for any reason whatsoever is dangerous to the
public health of safety because of its condition, and which may cause or aid in
the spreading of disease or injury to the health or the occupants of it or
neighboring structures.
   (B)   Faulty weather protection.
      (1)   Any structure which has deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster;
      (2)   Any structure which has deteriorated or ineffective water proofing
of exterior walls, roofs, foundations or floors, including broken windows or
doors;
      (3)   Any structure which has defective or lack of weather protection for
exterior wall coverings, including lack of paint, or feathering due to lack of
paint or other approved protective covering; and
      (4)   Any structure which has broken, rotted split or buckled exterior
walls or roof covering.
   (C)   Faulty construction materials. Any structure which has construction
materials which are not approved by the State Building Code and the Fire Safety
Standards and which have not been adequately maintained in good and safe
condition.
   (D)   Fire hazards.
      (1)   Any structure which is not of fire-resistive construction or
provided with fire-extinguishing systems or equipment required by the Fire
Safety Standards, except those structures which conformed with all applicable
laws at the time of their construction and whose fire-resistive integrity and
fire-extinguishing systems or equipment have been adequately maintained and
improved in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition,
or any change in occupancy;
      (2)   Any structure or combustible waste or vegetation which is in a
condition likely to cause a fire or explosion or provide ready fuel to augment
the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any cause;
      (3)   Any structure which has a door, aisle, passage way, stairway or
other means of exit of insufficient width or size, or not so arranged as to
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic for all
persons housed or assembled therein who would be required to, or might use such
means of exit; and
      (4)   Any structure which does not have an unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   (E)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. Any premises in which there is an
accumulation of weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage,
refuse, vermin harborage, stagnant water, combustible materials or similar
materials or conditions constituting fire, health or safety hazards;
   (F)   Electrical hazards.
      (1)   Any structure which has permanent electrical wiring that is
dangerous due to lack of insulation, improper fuses or circuit breakers,
Inadequate grounding, wires of inadequate capacity, obvious shock hazards, or
other dangerous conditions;
      (2)   Any structure which has temporary wiring, except extension cords
that run directly from portable electric fixtures to convenience outlets and do
not lie underneath floor covering materials or extend through doorways,
transoms or other similar openings through walls, floor or ceiling;
   (G)   Plumbing hazards.
      (1)   Any structure which has plumbing that permits contamination of the
water supply through backflow, back-siphonage or any other method of
contamination;
      (2)   Any structure which has water supply inlets below the flood level
of any sink, lavatory, bathtub or other fixture, or submerged inlets except
those with a vacuum breaker complying with the State Building Code; and
      (3)   Any structure with a water-using fixture whose waste line is not
trapped.
   (H)   Heating hazards.
      (1)   Any structure which has a fuel supply connection of material other
than pipe or tubing of solid metal, or is not permanently fastened in place;
      (2)   Any structure which has equipment or vents so close to combustible
materials or structural components, or so lacking in insulation, that there is
danger of combustion; and
      (3)   Any structure which has equipment burning liquid or solid fuel
which is hot connected to chimneys or flues, or which is connected to vents
suitable for natural gas only.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.03 UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   Any structure which has any or all of the following defects shall be deemed
substandard and unfit for human habitation:
   (A)   Ventilation.
      (1)   Any structure which does not have the window area for each
habitable room equal to at least 10% of the total floor area of such room,
excluding rooms abutting row houses and rooms not abutting exterior walls;
      (2)   Any structure which does not have ventilation provided by openable
doors or windows equal to 4.5% of the total floor area of each room, except
where there is supplied forced air ventilation complying with all applicable
laws and ordinances; and
      (3)   Any structure which, from May 15 through October 15, does not have
screens to effectively cover all openable windows, doors and other ventilation
devices required under division (A)(2) above, with mesh in good repair and of
maximum gauge 14 by 18;
   (B)   Below ground level.
      (1)   Any structure having a basement or cellar with windows or other
openings which are not screened or otherwise protected to effectively prevent
the entrance of vermin and other pests;
      (2)   Any basement or cellar used as a habitable room or dwelling unit in
which the floor and walls are not impervious to leakage or underground and
surface run-off water and are not insulated against dampness, or in which the
total window area in each room is not equal to at least the minimum window area
sizes required by division (A)(1) above, or in which such required minimum
window area is not located entirely above the grade of the ground adjoining
such window area, or in which the total open-able window area in each room is
not equal to at least the minimum required by division (A)(2) above, except
where there is installed some other operable device affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Building Inspector, or in which exits are not
adequate or do not comply with the Fire Safety Standards.
   (C)   Ceiling height. Any structure having rooms with the ceiling height
less than seven feet throughout one-half of the area of such room; any portion
of a room having a ceiling height less than five feet high shall not be
considered in computing the total floor area of such room;
   (D)   Plumbing.
      (1)   Any structure which does not have a potable water supply;
      (2)   Any structure which does not have hot and cold running water with
operable waters-heating facilities capable of heating water to such a
temperature to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required
kitchen sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower at a temperature of at least 120°F;
      (3)   Any structure which does not have an installed kitchen sink in each
dwelling unit properly connected to the hot and cold water supply pipes and the
sewer system;
      (4)   Any structure which does not have an installed bathtub or shower
and lavatory properly connected to the hot and cold water supply pipes and the
sewer system, or in which the tub or shower is not located in a room affording
privacy;
      (5)   Any structure which does not have an operable flush type water
closet located in a room affording privacy and properly connected to the water
supply pipes and the sewer system; and
      (6)   Any structure in which all plumbing fixtures are not connected to
sewer lines that discharge into a public sewerage system, or if no public
system is available, into a private or jointly owned system meeting the
requirements of all public health authorities having jurisdiction.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Any structure which does not have installed operable and safe
electric lighting facilities consisting of at least two separate wall-type
convenience outlets or one ceiling-type fixture and one wall-type outlet for
every habitable room, and at least one such wall outlet or ceiling fixture in
each water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public
hall and stairway;
      (2)   Any multiple dwelling of five or more units in which all public
halls and stairways are not adequately lighted at all times, and any multiple
dwelling of four units or less in which there is neither conveniently located
switches controlling an adequate lighting system for public halls and stairways
nor adequate full-time lighting thereof;
   (F)   Heating. Any structure which does not have operable central or other
heating facilities installed and maintained in accordance with the Fire Safety
Standards, capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein
to a temperature of at least 70°F at a distance of three feet above floor level
when the outside temperature is 0°F and adequately vented;
   (G)   Refuse and pests.
      (1)   Any structure which does not have adequate rubbish storage
facilities and garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers; and
      (2)   Any structure in which there has been accumulated extraordinary
garbage, rubbish or refuse, or in which there is an infestation of vermin, or
other pests, or other unsanitary conditions, any of which are hazardous to
health.
   (H)   Miscellaneous substandard and hazardous conditions. Any structure in
which exist other conditions dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or
morals of the occupants thereof, or of the occupants or owners of neighboring
structures, or of other residents of the city, including, but not limited to,
any defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities; lack
of adequate light, ventilation or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair,
structural defects and uncleanliness.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OCCUPANTS AND OWNERS.
   (A)   (1)   The responsibilities of the occupants are as follows:
         (a)   To keep the portion of the structure and premises he or she
controls and occupies in a clean and sanitary condition;
         (b)   To dispose of rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner
as prescribed by city ordinances;
         (c)   To hang and remove screens provided by the owner except where
the owner has agreed to supply such services;
         (d)   To keep plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary
condition and to exercise reasonable care in the proper use and operation
thereof; and
         (e)   To exterminate in the following cases.
            1.   The occupant of a single dwelling is responsible for
extermination of any insects, vermin or other pests therein or on premises.
            2.   The occupant of a single dwelling unit in a multiple unit
structure is responsible for extermination of any insects, vermin or other
pests if his or her unit is the only unit infested.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by the failure of the owner to maintain the dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, the occupant is not
responsible for extermination of any insects, vermin or other pests therein.
   (B)   The responsibilities of the owner are as follows:
      (1)   To have the structure and premises in a safe, clean, sanitary,
habitable condition, free from infestation by insects, vermin and other pests
before renting, and to exterminate if necessary;
      (2)   To provide with screens every window and door and other ventilation
device opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space, and to provide a
self-closing device for each such door;
      (3)   To exterminate in the following cases:
         (a)   When infestation exists in two or more units of a multiple-unit
structure;
         (b)   When infestation exists in shared or public areas of a multiple-
unit structure; and
         (c)   When infestation exists in a single-unit of a multiple-unit
structure or in a single-unit structure when infestation is due to failure of
the owner to maintain the dwelling in a vermin-proof and reasonably insect-
proof condition.
      (4)   To perform the responsibilities of the occupant when the premises
are vacant.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.05 OCCUPANCY STANDARDS.
   The number of persons occupying any structure shall be limited by the
following requirements.
   (A)   Each sleeping room shall have at least seventy square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and not less than 30 square feet of floor
space for each additional occupant.
   (B)   The total of all habitable rooms in a structure shall be such as to
provide at least 150 square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof,
and at least 50 additional square feet of floor space for each additional
occupant thereof; floor space shall be calculated in relation to ceiling
heights as specified in §
155.03(C).
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.06 ROOMING HOUSES.
   No person shall operate a rooming house or shall let to another for
occupancy any room unless such rooming house or room satisfies the following
requirements.
   (A)   Each rooming house and room shall be in compliance with the minimum
standards set forth in §§
155.02 and
155.03, except for requirements as to bathroom availability, which are
specified in divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Each rooming house shall be equipped with at least one flush water
closet, one lavatory and one tub or shower for each ten persons or fraction
thereof within the rooming house, including members of the operator’s family,
if they are to share the use of the facilities; all such facilities shall be
properly connected to the water supply pipes and sewer system.
   (C)   Each flush water closet, lavatory, tub or shower required above shall
be located within the rooming house, in a room or rooms, which:
      (1)   Affords privacy;
      (2)   Is accessible by a common hall without going outside the rooming
house;
      (3)   Is accessible by a common hall without going through sleeping
quarters of others; and
      (4)   Is not more than one story removed from the room of an occupant
intended to share the facilities.
   (D)   Clean bed linen and towels shall be supplied by the operator at least
once each week and prior to the letting of any room to any occupant.
   (E)   The operator shall be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of each
room to be let, and the entire rooming house and premises under the operator’s
control.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.07 RENTING UNFIT OR UNSAFE STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any party in interest of a structure
to rent or offer for rent any such structure which is unfit for human
habitation for any reason set out in §
155.03 due to dilapidation, leaking water lines, leaking gas lines, electrical
defects increasing hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering
such structure unsafe or unsanitary as defined in §
155.02.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 NUISANCES.
   Any structure which is unsafe or unfit for human habitation as hereinbefore
defined is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be repaired,
rebuilt or demolished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 PERMITTING, OCCUPYING AND CLOSING UNSAFE AND UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
or unfit structures or premises in the city. It shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant or person in custody of any unsafe or unfit structure or
premises to permit the same to remain in an unsafe or unfit condition, or to
occupy or permit the occupancy of same while it is or remains in an unsafe or
unfit condition.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such
structures or premises after the time to appeal any adverse notice and/or order
from the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer or decision of the
City Commission, shall have expired.
   (C)   Vacating and closing structures or premises which are unsafe or unfit
due to dangerous or unsanitary conditions shall not exonerate the owner without
rendering the same safe and sanitary to neighbors and the general public.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10 IRREPARABLE CONDITION.
   Any structure within the city which shall have been damaged by fire, decay
or other causes to the extent that it would reasonably cost at least 50% of its
fair market value to restore it to a condition which is safe and fit for human
habitation shall be deemed to be irreparable and shall be demolished, or at the
option of the owner shall be rebuilt to standards for new construction under
the State Building Code and Fire Safety Standards.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 155.11 COMPLAINTS AND INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever a complaint is filed with the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer by a public officer or authority or by at least five
residents of the city charging that any structure or premises is unsafe or is
unfit for human habitation as hereinbefore defined, or that there is any other
violation of this chapter, or whenever the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer from his or her or their personal observations suspects any
violation or structure or premises so unsafe or unfit, he or she or they shall
investigate such complaint or suspicion, and shall inspect such structure or
premises where he or she or they has reason to believe violations of this
chapter, or of any other applicable code, ordinance or statute exist.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.12 CONDEMNATION NOTICE AND ORDER.
   If the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer determines in his
or her or their opinion that such structure or premises is unsafe or unfit, or
that there is any other violation of this chapter, he or she shall serve all
owners, adult occupants, parties in interest, and utility providers written
notice thereof in the form of a notice with order of appropriate remedial
action. The notice and order shall be styled “Notice and Order of
Condemnation”, shall be signed and dated by the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer, and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The names and addresses if known of all owners, adult occupants and
parties in interest of such structure or premises;
   (B)   The location of such structure or premises;
   (C)   A statement in substance that the structure and/or premises has been
condemned as a nuisance by the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement
Officer;
   (D)   A detailed summary of the reasons for condemnation;
   (E)   A detailed summary of actions necessary to remedy the conditions
making the premises or structure unfit or unsafe, with an express order
directed to the owner to effect such remedial actions;
   (F)   A statement, if reasonably believed by the Building Inspector and/or
Code Enforcement Officer, that the structure is irreparable because repair
costs are estimated to exceed 50% of its value as provided in §
155.10;
   (G)   Reasonable times allowed for the following actions:
      (1)   Vacating and closing or otherwise securing the structure or
premises, if believed reasonably necessary by the Building Inspector and/or
Code Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   Commencement and completion of said remedial actions;
      (3)   Commencement and completion of demolition, if the owner elects not
to effect said remedial actions; and
      (4)   Filing an appeal from the notice and order of condemnation.
   (H)   A brief explanation of appeal procedure, as provided in §
155.17; and
   (I)   A statement in substance that failure to comply or appeal will result
in such remedial action or demolition by the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer and in his or her or their filing a lien, as provided in §
155.14, in favor of the city for the cost so incurred against the real property
which such violation exists.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.13 ENFORCEMENT OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   If no such remedial action, demolition or appeal shall be timely undertaken,
the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer may cause the structure
or premises in violation to be:
   (A)   Wholly or partially so remedied; or
   (B)   Demolished, if the structure is irreparable as defined in §
155.10;
   (C)   Vacated and closed or otherwise secured; and
   (D)   Posted as being unfit or unsafe and condemned, and prohibiting
occupancy.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.14 LIEN FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The cost of such actions by the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer under §
155.13, including the expense of publishing, posting, recording and serving
notice and/or orders, shall be a personal liability of the owner and shall be a
lien upon the real property upon which such cost shall have been incurred, with
credit being allowed the owner for the proceeds, if any, received from the
disposition of materials from any structure removed or demolished. The Building
Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall file with the County Clerk as
an encumbrance an appropriate lien statement for such costs in form approved by
the City Attorney.
   (B)   Said cost shall be placed upon the city’s tax books against said
property and may be collected, and the said liens may be foreclosed, in the
same manner and with the same penalties and interest as property taxes and tax
liens are collected and foreclosed, or by other civil action or process
determined by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.15 SERVING, POSTING AND RECORDING NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   All notices and orders served by the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer shall be given by personal delivery or by certified mail
return receipt requested. Service to a husband or wife or other adult member of
a household shall be deemed adequate notice to all occupants of the dwelling
unit or rooming unit containing such household.
   (B)   If the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer cannot in
the exercise of reasonable diligence ascertain the whereabouts of any person
required hereunder to be served and makes an affidavit to that effect, then
service upon such person shall be made by publishing the notice and order in
accordance with KRS 424.130(b).
   (C)   A copy of each notice and order served shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected thereby and shall be recorded with
the County Clerk, but the same shall be removed and released by the Building
Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer when the ordered remedial action
shall have been effected or when reversed on appeal under §
155.17.
   (D)   Failure on the part of any owner or party in interest to be served
with any such notice and/or order shall not affect or invalidate condemnation
proceedings with respect to any other owner or party in interest or anyone
else.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.16 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In circumstances where it reasonably appears that there is immediate
danger to the life or safety of any person unless the unsafe or unfit condition
of any structure or premises, as hereinbefore defined, shall be immediately
remedied, the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall
immediately vacate and close or otherwise secure such structure or premises and
may with the approval of the Mayor or City Manager cause the immediate repair
or demolition of other remedy thereof.
   (B)   The cost of such emergency actions shall be a lien upon the real
property affected as under §
155.14.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.17 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any notice and/or order of the Building
Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer from which there is no other express
administrative or judicial appeal provided by law may appeal to the City
Commission.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken within ten days after service of such
notice and/or order on such person by filing with the City Manager a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof and stating the appellant’s name, address
and telephone number. Enforcement of such notice and/or order shall thereupon
be suspended pending the appeal.
   (C)   The City Manager shall forthwith deliver copies of said notice of
appeal to the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer and the Mayor.
The City Commission shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and
shall give public notice in accordance with KRS 424.130, as well as written
notice to the appellant and the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement
Officer at least one week prior to the hearing.
   (D)   The appellant may appear at the hearing in person and/or by counsel,
and may present relevant evidence. The City Commission may administer oaths and
affirmations, receive evidence and examine witnesses. The City Commission may
affirm, reverse, vary or remand the appealed notice and/or order, but in any
event shall render its findings and decision in writing within 30 days after
the notice of appeal shall have been filed.
   (E)   Signed copies of the City Commission’s findings and decision shall be
recorded with the County Clerk filed with the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer, and served by personal delivery or by certified mail
return receipt requested to appellant at the address stated in the notice of
appeal.
   (F)   The City Commission’s decision shall be final and appealable only to
County Circuit Court within 30 days after service to the appellant.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7- -1982; Ord. 950.5-A-7-88, passed 7-25-1988; Ord. 950.6-
4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.18 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where, because of conditions peculiar to a particular structure, it
would be unreasonably difficult to satisfy the literal requirements of this
chapter, a variance may be granted by the Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officer, jointly, upon written application therefor, or by the City
Commission upon appeal, and such application shall state in writing the reasons
why the variance should be made.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only where it shall be evident that
reasonable safety and sanitation is assured, may include conditions not
generally specified by this chapter in order to achieve that end, and may
include an expiration date. Copies of all variances shall be recorded with the
County Clerk, filed with the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement
Officer, and served to the applicant.
   (C)   If not issued within 30 days after written application therefor is
made to the Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer, the applicant
shall be given a written statement of reasons why the variance cannot be
granted, provided that no application shall be considered after a structure
shall have been condemned as unsafe or unfit unless the owner shall have made a
reasonable attempt to effect the ordered remedies.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.19 ALTERNATIVE LEGAL ACTIONS.
   The City Attorney may, upon his or her own motion or upon request of the
Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer institute appropriate action
to restrain, enjoin, abate, remove or otherwise correct any violation of this
chapter, and to take such other legal action as may be necessary or appropriate
to carry out the terms and intent of this chapter. The legal remedies provided
for in this chapter shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by law. Any and all legal remedies may
be pursued concurrently or consecutively, and the pursuit of any legal remedy
shall not be construed as a waiver of the right to pursue any other legal
remedy.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 950.6-4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, or any notice of
order issued pursuant hereto after all appeals shall have been exhausted, or
who shall destroy or remove any notice and order of condemnation posted by the
Building Inspector and/or Code Enforcement Officer before ordered remedial
action shall be effected or reversed on appeal, shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $250, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 950.5, passed 7-1-1982)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Authority
   
156.04   Jurisdiction
   
156.05   Interpretation
   
156.06   Severability
   
156.07   Amendments
   
156.08   Waivers
Procedures for Subdivision Plat Approval
   
156.20   General
   
156.21   Classification of subdivisions
   
156.22   Review procedures
   
156.23   Submittal date
   
156.24   Planning Commission action
   
156.25   Pre-Application conference
   
156.26   Concept plan
   
156.27   Preliminary plat
   
156.28   Construction plans
   
156.29   Final plat
   
156.30   Miscellaneous platting situations
   
156.31   GIS submittal
Minimum Design Standards
   
156.40   General requirements
   
156.41   Subdivision and street names
   
156.42   Street design principles
   
156.43   Conformity of street design and alignment
   
156.44   Block design
   
156.45   Lots
   
156.46   Stormwater management facilities
   
156.47   Subsurface sewage disposal systems (septic tanks)
   
156.48   Areas subject to periodic flooding or inundation
   
156.49   Building setbacks, proximity to electric transmission lines
   
156.50   Access to lots
   
156.51   Water facilities and fire protection
   
156.52   Pedestrian ways
   
156.53   Street lighting
   
156.54   Aesthetics
Assurance for Completion and
Warranty of Improvements
   
156.70   Timing of improvement
   
156.71   Performance surety
   
156.72   Inspection of improvements
   
156.73   Warranty period and certificate of completion
   
156.74   Reduction, extension, or release of performance surety
   
156.75   Maintenance of improvements
   
156.76   Expiration of surety
   
156.77   Disposition of liquidated securities
Appendices
   
156.80   Definitions and abbreviations
   
156.81   Adoption by reference
   
156.98   Enforcement
 
   
156.99   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Chapter 151
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Chapter 157
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 158
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the "Subdivision Regulations
for the City of Franklin, Kentucky." A certified copy of these regulations will
remain on file with the City Court Clerk of Simpson City and in the
administrative office of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Land subdivision is the first step in the process of community
development. Once land has been divided up into streets, lots, and blocks and
is publicly recorded, the correction of defects is costly and difficult.
Subdivision of land sooner or later becomes a public concern, in that public
infrastructure must be maintained and various public services customary to
urban and rural areas must be provided. The welfare of the community is thereby
affected in many important respects. It is therefore in the interest of the
public, the developer, and future owners that subdivisions be conceived,
designed, and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper minimum
standards. In accordance with state statute, these regulations are intended to
provide:
      (1)   For the harmonious development of the region and its environs;
      (2)   For the coordination of roads within the subdivided land with other
existing or planned roads or with the state or regional plan or with the plans
of municipalities in or near the region;
      (3)   For adequate open spaces for traffic, light, air, and recreation;
      (4)   For the conservation of or production of adequate transportation,
water, drainage and sanitary facilities, and to reduce flood damage potentials
to the greatest extent possible;
      (5)   For the avoidance of population congestion; and
      (6)   For the avoidance of such scattered or premature subdivision of
land as would involve danger or injury to health, safety or prosperity.
   (B)   The regulations herein shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement
of the provisions and standards contained in the Zoning Regulations of the City
of Franklin and Simpson County, Kentucky (hereinafter referred to as the Zoning
Regulations) and shall likewise supplement and facilitate the enforcement of
the provisions and standards contained in the City Stormwater Management
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.03 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations were prepared by the City of Franklin, KY Public Works
Department and adopted by the Commissioners of the City of Franklin, Kentucky
under authority granted by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.04 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all lands within
the City of Franklin, Kentucky. These regulations shall govern all subdivision
of land within the City Planning Region. For these regulations the term
SUBDIVISION means "the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, sites, or other divisions requiring new street or utility construction or
any division of less than five acres for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale or building development, and includes re-subdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, relates to the process of re-subdividing or to the
land or area subdivided." UTILITY CONSTRUCTION does not include the mere
extension of individual service pipes or lines for the purpose of directly
connecting a single lot, site or other division to existing utility mains.
   (B)   Any owner of land within this area wishing to subdivide said land
shall submit to the Planning Commission prescribed documents and plans
according to the procedures outlined herein, conforming to the minimum
requirements set forth herein, and any improvements shall be installed as
required by these regulations.
   (C)   No land shall be subdivided within the jurisdiction until the
applicant submits the document(s) required by these regulations, obtains
Planning Commission approval of the final plat, and files the approved plat
with the Simpson County Clerk.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.05 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare. Whenever the provisions of these
regulations are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, that provision
which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards of requirements shall
govern.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, provision, or a portion of these
subdivision regulations shall be found invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section,
clause, paragraph, provision, or portion of these regulations and their
application and validity to other sections. The City Commission authorizes the
Planning Commission to hereby declare that it would have enacted the remainder
of these regulations even without any such part, provision, or application.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.07 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Enactment. Before the addition of any amendment to these regulations,
a public hearing shall be held by the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning
Commission and amendments approved by the City Commissioners. Notice of the
time and place of the public hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction in accordance with
relevant state statute.
   (B)   Codifications and distribution. Subsequent to the adoption of any
amendment to these regulations, such amendment shall be incorporated with
placement pages incorporating the new or changed language. Each new or
replacement page shall have an amendment number and shall be dated so as to
indicate the date of the last revision of the page. Any necessary corrections
to the Table of Contents, cross references, or numbering of sections of these
regulations, but not specifically called out at the time of adoption, shall not
require formal action by the City Commissioners.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.07 WAIVERS.
   (A)   Findings. If the Planning Commission finds that compliance with
certain subdivision regulations will increase the difficulty of development of
a particular property without significant benefit (result in practical
difficulties), a waiver of these regulations may be granted provided that such
waiver shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these
regulations and only with the written consent of the City Engineer. The
Planning Commission shall make written findings based on the evidence presented
to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of a waiver shall not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, welfare, or injurious to other property or improvements where
the property is located.
      (2)   The waiver must, in the judgment of the Planning Commission, be
harmonious and consistent with the general purpose of these subdivision
regulations notwithstanding the fact that certain aspects of these regulations
may be waived as applied to the particular property and are not applicable
generally to other property.
      (3)   Because the particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographic
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of these regulations is carried out.
      (4)   The waiver shall be consistent with any provisions of the adopted
Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Regulations.
      (5)   An alternative providing equal or greater compliance is not
available.
   (B)   Procedures. A petition for a waiver shall be submitted in writing by
the applicant to the Planning Department and shall accompany either the concept
plan or preliminary plat as appropriate for presentation to the Planning
Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and
all the facts upon which the petitioner is relying.
   (C)   Conditions. In approving waivers, the Planning Commission may impose
such conditions as in its judgment shall secure substantially the objectives,
standards, and requirements of these regulations.
   (D)   Record. Any waiver shall be stated in writing and stated in the
minutes of the meeting of the Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Commission
with the reason on which it is based.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
§ 156.20 GENERAL.
   Before any land is subdivided or any contract is executed for the sale of
any parcel of land that is proposed to be subdivided and before any permit for
the erection of any structure in a proposed subdivision is granted, the owner
of the property or a designated attorney-in-fact (hereinafter "applicant"),
shall, upon payment of applicable fees, apply for and secure approval of
proposed subdivision in accordance with the standards as set forth in these
regulations. If an applicant is a corporation, LLC, or other similar
organization, a contact person shall be identified on the application
materials.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.21 CLASSIFICATION OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   Using the following definitions, the Planning Administrator shall determine
whether the application is a major or minor subdivision.
   (A)   Major subdivision. A division of land into more than two lots, or any
subdivision that includes any of the following conditions for major subdivision
review:
      (1)   A new or extended public street or street right-of-way, but not
including future street alignments illustrated in a plan of re-subdivision.
      (2)   Improvement(s) within an existing street right-of-way; other than:
         (a)   A repair or construction of sidewalk(s) or other pedestrian
connections required by these regulations; or
         (b)   Fire hydrants or other types of minor improvements necessary to
serve the lots being created.
      (3)   The dedication of a right-of-way or easement for construction of
any public utility, excluding private service lines and public utility drainage
easements across lot frontage.
      (4)   Dedications, reservations, improvements, or any other factors that,
in the opinion of the city, with advice from reviewing agencies, require
construction documents to be reviewed prior to final plat approval to ensure
the public health, safety and welfare.
      (5)   Drainage improvements common to one or more lots proposed that are
either new or altered.
      (6)   Any subdivision which seeks to gain approval for any waiver or
exception to any provision contained in this document or within the Zoning
Regulations, Major Thoroughfare Plan or Stormwater Management Ordinance.
   (B)   Minor subdivision. A subdivision of land in which less than three
buildable lots are being subdivided with a possible remaining parent land tract
and with no new streets, extension of any streets and no public utility
improvements, and in which the conditions for major subdivision review, as set
forth above are not present.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.22 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   All applications for subdivisions shall follow the procedures described
below:
   (A)   Major subdivision.
      (1)   Pre-application advisory meeting with planning staff including a
concept plan;
      (2)   Submittal of a preliminary plat, in accordance with requirements
herein, for Planning Commission approval: At staff's discretion, the concept
plan requirement may be waived for subdivisions containing five lots or less
and no public improvements;
      (3)   Submittal of preliminary plat and construction documents as
required herein for Planning Commission approval;
      (4)   Submittal of final plat, along with required surety and performance
documents guaranteeing infrastructure improvements, for Planning Commission
approval.
   (B)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   Pre-application conference as deemed necessary by planning staff.
      (2)   Submittal of final plat for Planning Commission approval.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.23 SUBMITTAL DATE.
   For the purpose of these regulations for major subdivisions, the date of the
regular meeting of the Planning Commission at which the public hearing on the
completed preliminary subdivision plat application is closed shall constitute
the official submittal date of the plat at which the statutory period required
for formal approval or disapproval of the plat shall commence. When a plat has
been filed with appropriate officials, the plat shall be placed on the agenda
of the Planning Commission within 30 days of the filing or the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting after the 30 day period. The applicant
may waive the time frame requirement for the appearance of the plat on the
agenda, and the Planning Administrator shall document such actions in writing.
Planning Commission meeting schedules and submittal/resubmittal dates will be
prepared in December of each year for the following year by the Planning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.24 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Within 60 days after initial consideration of a completed preliminary
plat application, the Planning Commission will indicate approval, disapproval
or approval subject to conditions; otherwise, the preliminary plat shall be
deemed approved and a certificate to that effect shall be issued by the
Planning Commission on demand. If a plat is disapproved, reasons for such
disapproval shall be stated in writing upon the minutes of the Planning
Commission. A preliminary plat application shall be considered "completed" if
it is accompanied by all required documents and information outlined in these
regulations. A preliminary plat approval checklist shall be promulgated by the
Planning Administrator and shall be distributed to applicants upon the payment
of fees associated with the preliminary plat application. Applications deemed
"incomplete" by the Planning Commission shall not initiate the statutory period
required for formal approval or disapproval of the plat.
   (B)   The applicant for preliminary plat approval may, in writing or at a
public meeting of the Planning Commission, waive the time requirement set in
this section and consent to an extension or extensions of the applicable time
period. Furthermore, the time requirement set in this section may be adjusted
for holidays, or unexpected interceding events that close city offices. Any
plat submitted to the Commission shall contain the name and address of a person
to whom notice of hearing may be sent; and no plat shall be acted upon by the
Commission without affording a hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of
which shall be sent by mail to the address not less than five days before the
date fixed for such hearing.
      (1)   Sixty days to submit revised plans. Any application that receives
conditional approval from the Planning Commission shall be followed, within 60
days, by submission of revised plans, or the Commission's approval shall
expire.
      (2)   Effective period of preliminary plat and construction drawings
approval.
         (a)   Preliminary plats shall expire after three years from the date
of Planning Commission approval unless an extension is granted consistent with
division (b) below or one of the following occurs:
            1.   A notice to proceed has been issued by the Public Works
Director and construction activity consistent with the approved construction
drawings has occurred; or
            2.   A final plat based on the approved preliminary plan is
approved and recorded.
         (b)   A one-time extension for one additional year may be requested to
the Planning Commission if submitted no less than 60 days prior to the
expiration of the original approval. The Planning Commission may grant such
extension if deemed appropriate based upon progress made in developing the
subdivision. If an extension is granted, expiration will be determined based on
this section.
         (c)   On all expired preliminary plats, any construction drawings or
unrecorded final plats based upon such plan, will also be considered to be
expired.
      (3)   Revisions to approved preliminary plats. Minor revisions shall be
approved by the Planning Administrator if revisions are deemed not to be
significant. For all revisions determined by the Planning Director to be major,
Planning Commission approval will be required. Procedures for considering a
major revision to a preliminary plat shall be the same as required for an
initial application for preliminary plat approval. Major revisions include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Change in location and number of access points;
         (b)   Increase in total number of lots;
         (c)   Reduction in size of lots;
         (d)   Change in size and/or use of open space;
         (e)   Significant changes to lot configuration or road locations/
alignments; and
         (f)   Environmental or other natural features' buffers.
         (g)   Where applicable, the threshold of a 5% change or greater will
be used to distinguish between minor and major revisions.
      (4)   Expiration of final subdivision plat. An approved final subdivision
plat shall expire if it is not recorded with the Office of the Simpson County
Clerk within 180 days after the date of approval. Minor plats, as defined
herein shall expire 180 days following the submittal of staff comments to the
surveyor of record.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.25 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Pre-application advisory meeting required. Prior to submitting plans
for subdivision of property in the city, a developer shall request a pre-
application advisory meeting with the Planning Administrator to review the
location, scope,and nature of the proposed development; to clarify development
issues; and to discuss other matters as may be relevant to the development
review and approval process. This preapplication advisory meeting shall be
attended by city staff as needed and the developer(s) or their representative.
A pre-application advisory meeting shall not be required where staff determines
that no purpose will be served by having such conference.
   (B)   Pre-application advisory meeting purpose. The purpose of the pre-
application advisory meeting is to provide an opportunity for an informal
exchange of information and ideas between the developer's team and city staff
and to identify parties responsible for various tasks involving the development
design. The conference is intended to introduce the developer and the team to
the city's development process, to identify timeframes for submittal and
review, and, if applicable, zoning changes or waivers from these regulations.
It is expected that during the pre-application conference topics including, but
not limited to, the following may be discussed:
      (1)   The possible need for traffic studies, as set forth in these
regulations, the Zoning Regulations, or as determined by the Planning
Department and/or the City Engineer.
      (2)   The flood insurance program.
      (3)   Utility availability and capacity (particularly the availability
and capacity of potable water; and sanitary sewer).
      (4)   Policies and expectations for street improvements and traffic
improvements.
      (5)   Items as required by the Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.26 CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   Concept plan requirements. For major subdivisions not part of a
planned unit development, the applicant shall submit a concept plan to the
Planning Department for their review, feedback and approval. At staff's
discretion, the concept plan requirement may be waived for subdivisions
containing five lots or less and no public improvements The concept plan is a
plan for design purposes and should be used to discover factors which may have
an impact on the proposed development and advise the subdivider of various
possibilities before substantial amounts of time have been invested in a very
detailed proposal which may contain elements contrary to these regulations. The
concept plan shall include all phases of the entire development under
consideration.
   (B)   Conditional approvals. Although the informal approval of a concept
plan shall convey no vested development rights and does not constitute a
DEVELOPMENT PLAN as defined in state statute, the Planning Department may
conditionally approve a concept plan subject to the developer providing
additional information and detail related to roads, drainage and other key
infrastructure requirements for the entire development under consideration.
Such information for the entire development under consideration shall be
submitted with the first preliminary plat application for the development.
   (C)   Required information for concept plans. At minimum, concept plans
shall contain the following:
      (1)   A scale drawing of the property and the names of the owners of
adjoining property;
      (2)   Size of the original tract(s) being subdivided;
      (3)   Notation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements or other
encumbrances affecting the property;
      (4)   Approximate topography of the site extended into adjacent
properties;
      (5)   Any areas which may be affected by flooding;
      (6)   General road and lot pattern;
      (7)   Proposed phasing, if any;
      (8)   Location map of the property; and
      (9)   Additional detail the applicant believes will assist the Planning
Department in understanding the proposed development.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.27 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat is a detailed planning and engineering document
developed by appropriately licensed professionals. Such plat will reflect
results of design decisions that have been made in the process of adapting the
general concepts contained within the concept plan to the engineering of the
site.
   (A)   Limitations on grading activities. Prior to Planning Commission
approval of a preliminary plat and construction drawings approval, no grading
or clearing of trees (with the exception of those required to facilitate
surveying activities) in any form shall be undertaken.
   (B)   Submission requirements. The applicant shall submit to the Planning
Department, in accordance with the time schedule established by the department,
three paper copies and one electronic copy, in a PDF format, of a preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch
equals 100 feet, and any other plans or supporting documents/reports/ studies
that may be required by the Planning Commission, along with the payment of all
required fees. At least five business days prior to the Planning Commission
meeting, the applicant shall submit two copies of the revised plat as required
by the Planning Department for inclusion in the Planning Commission meeting
packet.
   (C)   Multi-phase development requirements.
      (1)   To gain an understanding of drainage and infrastructure needs, the
Planning Commission may, in approving a preliminary plat, require that the
first preliminary plat submitted for a multiphase development contains required
information and detail related to roads, drainage, and other key infrastructure
requirements for the entire development under consideration.
      (2)   In approving a major or minor plat in which the remaining acreage
of the parent tract is more than twice the amount of the average lot size being
created, the Planning Commission may require, as a condition of approval, the
submittal of a concept plan for the remainder property prior to the approval of
any future plats for the parent tract.
   (D)   Required preliminary plat information. The preliminary plat shall
provide the following information:
      (1)   Baseline information.
         (a)   Proposed subdivision name;
         (b)   Location, name and address(es) of the owner(s), name and address
of the designer of the plan, along with professional registration and contact
information;
         (c)   Date, approximate north point, graphic scale, and location map;
         (d)   Location of existing property lines, building envelopes,
streets, buildings, water courses and stormwater conveyances, railroads,
sewers, bridges, culverts, streams, and any public utility easements or lines;
         (e)   Names of adjoining property owners, subdivisions and streets
with corresponding property map and parcel number(s), deed book and page
references for all existing easements and property zoning;
         (f)   Current zoning;
         (g)   Plans for proposed public utility layouts (sewers, water)
showing feasible connections to the existing utility systems;
         (h)   Proposed property lines, locations, widths and names of proposed
streets, alleys, drainage easements, utility easements, parks and other open
spaces, reservations, water quality buffers, outlines and other building
setback lines;
         (i)   Lots labeled in numerical sequence. Lot 1 shall be located in
the first section/phase of the proposed development;
         (j)   Contours of vertical intervals not more than two feet, except
this requirement may be waived if requested in writing by the applicant to the
Planning Department;
         (k)   Acreage of land to be subdivided and bearings and dimensions of
overall property boundary;
         (l)   FEMA panel number showing the 100 year flood limit, including
floodway, with that portion of the property lying below the 100 year flood
elevation being shown shaded or hatched;
         (m)   Limitations for development such as sinkholes, rock outcrops,
wetlands, topographic depressions, excessive slopes (20% or greater),
jurisdictional waters of the state, etc.;
         (n)   Name and location of any cemetery on the property and/or access
easements to any off-site cemetery through the property;
         (o)   Proposed phasing; and
         (p)   A form for endorsement of Planning Commission approval of the
preliminary plat which shall read as follows: Approved by the Simpson County
Planning Commission, with exceptions or conditions as are indicated in the
Minutes of the Planning Commission (date). Preliminary approval shall not
constitute final approval of the subdivision plat.
      (2)   Other supporting documentation to be included with all preliminary
plat submittals:
         (a)   Construction plans as required by these regulations and the city
of Franklin Stormwater Management Ordinance;
         (b)   If on-site sanitary methods are proposed (i.e., septic tanks,
alternate systems): 100-foot Water Pollution Control map, as defined by the
Kentucky Division of Water, for proposed areas;
         (c)   Street name determinations from Emergency Communications E911
showing approved street names;
         (d)   Applicable deed of ownership for the property under
consideration;
         (e)   Location map showing relationship of subdivision site to the
area;
         (f)   Letter of water services availability providing domestic and
fire demands for proposed subdivision;
         (g)   Supporting information as identified in pre-application
conference, including, but not limited to, traffic studies;
         (h)   All lots that have some geographic feature (i.e., sinkhole,
floodplain, steep slopes, or drainage easements) that would affect the location
and construction of a structure/building, parking, accessory structures, or
utilities (i.e., water, sewer, septic tank, well, electricity, phone) shall
have a specific notation placed on the affected lot or in an appropriate
location on the plat by the applicant's engineer or surveyor that is readily
visible; and
         (i)   A draft of proposed restrictive covenants, if any, to be imposed
and designation of areas subject to special restrictions.
   (E)   Preliminary approval. After the Planning Commission has reviewed the
preliminary plat, construction plans, exhibits, and the results of
administrative reviews, and has held a public hearing in accordance with the
procedures outlined in state law and within these regulations, the applicant
shall be advised of any required changes or additions.
      (1)   After the Planning Commission approves, conditionally approves, or
disapproves the preliminary plat, one copy of the proposed preliminary plat
shall be returned to the applicant with the date of approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval and the reasons therefore accompanying the plat.
      (2)   If a preliminary plat is disapproved, the Planning Commission shall
state specific reasons for disapproval which shall be entered into the minutes
of the meeting. Such reasons for disapproval should be stated upon the record
by each Commissioner when voting.
      (3)   Before the Planning Commission approves a preliminary plat showing
park reservation or land for other public use proposed to be dedicated to the
city, the Planning Commission shall obtain approval of the park or land
reservation from the appropriate governmental agency.
   (F)   Public improvements. The Planning Commission may require that all
public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to approval of the final
subdivision plat by the Planning Commission. If the Planning Commission does
not require that all public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to
final approval of the final subdivision plat by the Planning Commission,
adequate performance surety bonds must be approved in accordance with these
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.28 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Construction plans are to be submitted for all major subdivisions.
Construction plans shall be submitted concurrently with or following the
preliminary plat and shall be revised to conform to the preliminary plat as
approved by the Planning Commission. Construction plans shall be designed in
accordance with requirements and specifications outlined in these regulations
and per the City of Franklin Stormwater Management Ordinance. The complexity of
plans submitted shall be commensurate with the complexity and nature of the
development proposed.
   (B)   All construction plans and supporting documents shall be stamped by a
professional engineer registered in the State of Kentucky. The Planning
Commission will consider no final plats for approval, and no land disturbance
permits shall be issued, until the City Engineer has approved a set of
construction plans. Following required revisions and final city approval of the
construction plans, a pre-construction conference shall be held between the
applicant and city staff. All construction plans shall, at a minimum, contain
the following. Additional requirements are located in the Roadway and Drainage
Technical Standards Appendix to these regulations:
      (1)   Title and cover sheet.
         (a)   Name of development;
         (b)   Name and address of developer(s);
         (c)   Name and address of engineer and/or surveyor;
         (d)   Professional engineer's and surveyor's stamp and/or signature;
and
         (e)   Location map.
      (2)   Details sheets.
         (a)   Headwalls;
         (b)   Typical road sections;
         (c)   Typical ditch sections;
         (d)   Cross drain details;
         (e)   Erosion control structures; and
         (f)   Any other structures or construction requirements of special
details at the discretion of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Street plan and profile sheet.
         (a)   Detail plans plotted on plan and profile sheets to a minimum
scale of 1" (one inch) = 50' (fifty feet) horizontal, and 1" (one inch) = 5'
(five feet) vertical;
         (b)   Plan section including the street and right-of-way plotted to
the proper scale with stationing shown, and matching that of the profile
section as nearly as possible;
         (c)   Typical roadway sections, as appropriate;
         (d)   Where conventional roadway sections are used, the stabilization
required for the roadside ditches, including the linear extent and type of
stabilization required;
         (e)   Profile section plotted to the same scale as identified above
and including the proposed centerline finish grade profile, in addition to the
existing centerline profile with roadside ditch profiles;
         (f)   All vertical control points on or pertaining to the proposed
centerline profile such as P.V.C., P.V.I., and P.V.T.; all low points and
street intersections as to station and elevation;
         (g)   For all percent grades and for vertical curves design curves in
accordance with the Roadway and Drainage Technical Standards contained as an
Appendix to these regulations;
         (h)   Centerline finished grade elevations every 50 feet, or cut
sheets, to the nearest hundredth of a foot, at the bottom of the profile sheet;
         (i)   The proposed location of all traffic signs, warning signs, and
regulatory signs as required;
         (j)   The proposed location and layout for all pavement markings;
         (k)   The proposed design for all traffic signals, as required; and
         (l)   All sheets shall be signed and sealed by a professional engineer
registered in the State of Kentucky.
      (4)   Grading, drainage and erosion and sediment control plans.
         (a)   A complete plan of the proposed development of a scale no less
than one-inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 50'). This plan is to include the
North American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83) if available. A north arrow shall be
shown on the plan. The source and date of the contour should be noted. Contours
shall extend to the centerline of all roads bordering the site. Where drainage
ultimately enters the groundwater via a sinkhole or drainage well, the drainage
well, and the drainage area tributary to the sinkhole or drainage well shall be
delineated. Two plan sets should be submitted for initial review.
         (b)   Omission of any of the below requirements for detailed plans and
calculations shall render the application incomplete, and it will be returned
to the applicant, or their design engineer, for additional information. In the
event of a conflict between these requirements and the City Stormwater
Management Ordinance, the latter shall govern. The following shall be included:
            1.   Any existing or proposed easements.
            2.   Location of proposed basins showing direction of flow, taking
into account offsite runoff being routed through or around the project.
            3.   Existing buildings on the property.
            4.   Existing and proposed drainage structures, including inlets,
catch basins, junction boxes, drive pipes, culverts, cross drains, headwalls,
and outlet facilities, with size, type, slope (top and sides), invert
elevations, and quantity indicated.
            5.   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations for appropriate design
conditions and facilities.
            6.   Detention pond control structure details. All detention/
retention areas require an emergency overflow, unless approved by the City
Engineer.
            7.   Any proposed swale ditches, channel changes, or improvements,
with typical section and length of change indicated. If invert elevations are
not on the drawing, then depth, slope, and top and bottom width (if varies from
typical), or elevations of slopes with flat bottom width.
            8.   Any high water or flood lines, either calculated or observed
in the vicinity of the proposed development, and the source of said line or
elevation indicated.
            9.   All fill areas indicated as such, with the limits and
elevations indicated. At least one benchmark located, with the proper elevation
indicated for each subdivision.
            10.   The location and size of at least two drainage structures
immediately downstream of all stormwater discharge points from the proposed
development including ditch cross-sections. This may be shown on a vicinity map
with a scale no less than 1" (one inch) = 2,000' (two thousand feet).
            11.   Drainage arrows indicating the existing and proposed
direction of runoff throughout the development.
            12.   Invert and top of grade elevations on all catch basins and
inlets in addition to flow line elevations, stations, and percent grades of all
cross drains and pipe between inlets and catch basins.
            13.   Floodplain areas require the following information: existing
and proposed flood plain and floodway boundaries along with flood plain
elevations, and minimum pad and floor elevations for buildings in the
floodplain.
            14.   Temporary erosion and sediment control measures to be
implemented during construction shall be shown on a separate sheet.
            15.   Driveway culvert size chart, depicting each lot number with
proposed culvert sizes.
            16.   Final stabilization measures proposed for all disturbed areas
on the property. Areas with slopes 2:1 or greater shall be stabilized with rip
rap, sod or by other methods approved by the City Engineer. Show stabilization
for each ditch.
            17.   Where special structures such as box culverts, bridges, or
junction boxes are proposed, detail plans showing dimensions, reinforcement,
spacing, cross-sections, elevations, and other pertinent information shall be
submitted.
            18.   Plans and engineering calculations shall be signed and sealed
by a Kentucky registered engineer.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.29 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat is the culmination of the land subdivision process. When
approved and duly recorded as provided by law, the final plat becomes a
permanent public record of the survey of the lots, public right-of-way, common
open space, easements, and public lands. As such, it serves as a vital
instrument in the sale and transfer of real estate, in the dedication of
rights-of-way, easements and public lands, and in future land survey of the
properties contained in or adjoining the subdivision. Final plat approval is
intended to be a ministerial act. Therefore, all substantive planning of the
subdivision and the preparation of required documents should be accomplished
prior to submission of the final plat for Planning Commission review.
   (A)   Conformance with the preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform to
the preliminary plat and construction plans as approved; and, if desired by the
applicant, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat
proposed for recording at the time, provided, however, that such portion
conforms to all requirements and standards.
   (B)   Submission requirements. The applicant shall submit three paper copies
and one electronic PDF copy of the proposed final plat to the Planning
Department, according to the schedule prepared by the Department, as well as
all applicable fees paid to the Planning Commission. At least five business
days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which the final plat will be
reviewed, the applicant shall submit ten copies of the revised plat as required
by the Planning Department for inclusion in the Planning Commission meeting
packet. The approved final plat shall be recorded with the Simpson County
Clerk's office where it will become the official plat of record. The applicant
shall be responsible for paying all recording fees.
   (C)   Required information. The final plat shall: meet the minimum standards
of design as set forth in these regulations, be drawn to a scale of 1" = 100'
on an 18" x 24" or 24" x 36" sheet (outside dimensions); and provide the
following:
      (1)   Statement of purpose for the plat.
      (2)   The lines of all streets and roads, existing buildings, alley
lines, lot lines, building setback lines, lots numbered in sequential/logical
order, all easements and water quality buffers, and any areas to be dedicated
to public use or sites for other than residential use with note stating their
purpose and any limitations.
      (3)   Location of existing and proposed fire hydrants.
      (4)   Acreage/square footage of all proposed parcels on the plat.
      (5)   Proposed public and/or private road names and lot addresses as
approved by the Planning staff and Emergency Communications (E911).
      (6)   Existing zoning(s) and setbacks chart with exceptions clearly
depicted on specific lots.
      (7)   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
the location, bearing and length of every street line, boundary line, block
line and building line whether curved or straight, and including magnetic north
point. This shall include the radius, central angle and arc length distance for
the curved streets right-of-way and the curved property lines that are not the
boundary of curved streets.
      (8)   All dimensions to the nearest one hundredth (0.01) of a foot and
angles to the nearest second.
      (9)   Location and description of monuments.
      (10)   The names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets,
existing easements, and the location and ownership of adjoining un-subdivided
property; map, parcel, book, page.
      (11)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision, graphic scale, and
magnetic north point.
      (12)   Location sketch map showing site in relation to area.
      (13)   Distance to nearest intersection.
      (14)   As needed, the specific area to be used for sewage disposal, at
the discretion of the Simpson County Health Department.
      (15)   All required stormwater notes.
      (16)   Water wells, (existing and proposed). Where wells are proposed,
the distance from the nearest water line shall be shown. When water wells are
to be used, a note shall be indicated on the plat stating that the property in
question may not be suitable for use by water well(s).
      (17)   One hundred (100) year flood limit, including the floodway, as
determined by most recently published FEMA maps on file with the Planning
Commission, with that portion of the property lying below the 100 year flood
elevation being shown shaded or hatched, along with minimum pad and floor
elevations for impacted lots. Flood panel information shall also be shown.
      (18)   Driveway culvert size chart, approved by the design engineer,
depicting each lot number with RCP culvert sizes that exceed 15 inches in size.
Any lot that is not listed in the chart shall have a 15 inch minimum RCP
driveway culvert size.
      (19)   All lots that have some geographic feature (i.e., sinkhole, flood
plain, or drainage facilities) that would affect the location and construction
of a structure/building, parking, accessory structures, or utilities (i.e.,
water, sewer, septic tank, well, electricity, phone) shall have a specific
notation placed on the affected lot or in an appropriate location on the final
plat that is readily visible.
      (20)   If the final plat depicts a portion of the development that has
common ownership, plans for improvements and maintenance of the common areas
shall be presented to the Planning Commission for verification before recording
of the final plat.
      (21)   A plat note stating the recording information of the articles of
incorporation, bylaws and declaration of covenants and restrictions of the
homeowner's association if required.
      (22)   A plat note stating the recording information of the Stormwater
Maintenance Agreement if required.
      (23)   Block showing time and date of recording, along with plat book and
page numbers.
      (24)   Critical lots, as identified within these regulations.
      (25)   Notation of possible flooding.  If any portion of the land being
subdivided is subject to flooding, as defined in these regulations, a notation
shall be made on the plat that development or modification of the land within
any floodway delineated on the plat is prohibited and that development within
floodway fringes delineated on the plat shall be done in such a manner that any
structure shall be protected against flood damage to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation, which elevation shall be stated in the notation.
Any additional restrictions imposed by the Planning Commission upon development
within flood-prone areas also shall be indicated on the plat.
      (26)   Notation of health restrictions. Any modifications or limitations
which may be imposed by the Simpson County Health Department shall be clearly
indicated on the plat.
      (27)   Notation of private restrictions. Private restrictions and
trusteeships and their periods of existence shall be indicated on the plat.
Should these restrictions or trusteeships be of such length as to make their
lettering impracticable and, thus, necessitate the preparation of a separate
instrument, reference to such instrument shall be made on the plat or, if the
restrictions and trusteeships are of record, the plat shall note where they are
recorded.
   (D)   Notations and certifications. Meeting minutes and Planning
Administrator documentation of department and utility improvements approvals
will stand for all signature approvals. Individual certification blocks will
not be required on plats for recording.
   (E)   Owner's deed. The applicant shall furnish the Planning Department a
copy, in paper or electronic format, of the owner's deed and the final plat
shall show deed book and page number where deed is recorded.
   (F)   Plat filing. It shall be the responsibility of the Planning
Administrator to file the plat with the Simpson County Clerk's office within
180 days of the approval date by the Planning Commission. When the plat is
filed, the property owner or their agent simultaneously shall record the
agreement of dedication together with such legal documents as the City Attorney
may require to be recorded. Any plat not being filed with the Simpson County
Clerk's office within the period of time set forth herein shall be considered
null and void. The developer shall therefore be required to submit new
subdivision development plans and obtain approvals for such plans, subject to
any new zoning restrictions and/or subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 2022-077, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.30 MISCELLANEOUS PLATTING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Consolidation plat. Any number of existing lots of record may be
combined into an equal or lesser number of lots by submittal of a final plat as
described in this chapter. The final plat shall additionally show the original
lot lines as dashed lines and the proposed lot lines as solid. Combining lots
shall require approval by the Planning Director. Any lots resulting from such
consolidation shall meet all applicable regulations. Consolidation plats that
require a waiver from these regulations shall be deemed to be a major
subdivision.
   (B)   Condominium plat.
      (1)   Any public or private infrastructure, easement, dedications or
other improvements/ encumbrances shall be platted in accordance with the
applicable sections and procedures of these regulations.
      (2)   The platting of individual condominium units in accordance with an
approved preliminary plan, site plan, PUD Master Plan, or other document shall
be in accordance with the Kentucky Condominium Act rules and requirements.
   (C)   Subdivision plat amendments. Subdivision plats which have been
previously approved and recorded with the Simpson County Clerk may be amended
with the signature of the Planning Administrator provided that such changes are
minor in nature.
      (1)   The grounds for such plat amendments by the Planning Administrator
shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Correction of scrivener's and other inadvertent typographic
errors and omissions upon the face of the plat, provided that such corrections
do not alter the intent of the original approval;
         (b)   Alteration of depicted septic soil areas, provided that such
areas do not cross lot lines, and further provided that the approval of the
Simpson County Health Department is also obtained with the plat amendment.
      (2)   Plat amendments shall state clearly the action being taken, shall
clearly and prominently reference the plat being amended and shall be recorded
with the Simpson County Clerk after obtaining all approvals.
      (3)   Any visual depiction of the plat amendment shall have a signature
block for the Planning Commission Secretary upon its face, in addition to any
signature areas contained elsewhere in the document.
      (4)   Any fees set for planning review of minor plats as defined herein
shall also apply to subdivision plat amendments.
      (5)   Any plat amendment, which shall be deemed to be outside the scope
of the above limitations, shall be required to submit a major or minor
subdivision plat as defined by these regulations for approval, and as
determined by the Planning Director. Examples of such requests include, but are
not limited to, those which may seek to:
         (a)   Alter a depicted or described public drainage easement, utility
easement, or ingress/egress easement;
         (b)   Add a new public drainage easement, utility easement, or
ingress/egress easement; and/or
         (c)   Alter a depicted lot line.
      (6)   For applications consisting of existing lots of record which cannot
meet current state septic requirements and cannot be replatted, the Planning
Commission may approve a waiver to these requirements provided that a signed
letter is provided from the local Health Department stating that all options
have been exhausted related to correcting septic system deficiencies.
         (a)   Such waiver shall be submitted for the proposed plat amendment
in accordance with other waiver requests as provided herein.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.31 GIS SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   All plans and plats submitted for consideration under these
regulations must have a minimum of four points which shall form a closed
polygon that encompasses the entire project submitted. Additional points which
permit definition of sub-polygons within the project will be acceptable and
desirable. These points must be defined in terms of the following geographic
coordinate system: Decimal fractions of a degree Kentucky State Plane
Coordinates. The coordinate system selected must maintain a minimum precision
corresponding to the following standards for each individual coordinate type
for both X and Y coordinates:
   (B)   Kentucky State Plane: each coordinate pair must be defined to the
nearest tenth of a foot; for example, a coordinate of "(525,042.7,
1,826,294.1)". These coordinates may be presented in a tabular format on the
plat similar to curve data tables.
   (C)   Upon resubmittal during review process, prior to final approval, in
addition to the paper copies required, DWG and PDF files shall be submitted in
a recordable media format or emailed to a designated representative of the
Planning Department. The purpose of this requirement is to facilitate the input
of new development plats into the city's computerized Geographic Information
System for analysis, storage and retrieval.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.40 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. In addition to the requirements
established herein, divisions of land and improvements constructed thereupon
shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
regulations, including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   All applicable provisions of Kentucky law, regulations or policy;
      (2)   The City Comprehensive Plan, Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning
Regulations, International Building Code, City of Franklin Code of Ordinances
and all other applicable ordinances, rules, or regulations of the city;
      (3)   The City Stormwater Management Ordinance;
      (4)   The rules of the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection;
      (5)   The rules of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (if the
subdivision or any lot contained herein abuts or encompasses an existing or
proposed state highway or state route);
      (6)   The standards and regulations adopted by other boards, commissions,
and agencies of the city, where applicable;
      (7)   City of Franklin Sewer Use Ordinance;
      (8)   City of Franklin Standard Utility Specifications; and
      (9)   All of the contents of these regulations including, but not limited
to Appendix F and all other appendices.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. These design standards shall be considered
minimum requirements and may be increased at the direction of the City Engineer
in order to address conditions that may be unique to a particular site. Any on-
site or off-site engineering improvements shall be in accordance with these
regulations and the City Stormwater Management Ordinance. Design of streets
shall follow the latest editions of these subdivision regulations, the KYTC
"Highway Design Guidance Manual" and the AASHTO "A Policy on Geometric Design
and Highways and Streets" unless otherwise noted. Also, other relevant KYTC,
AASHTO, FHWA and ITE design documents should be consulted for guidance. The
City Engineer shall make the final decision if any questions or conflicts arise
between any of these standards.
   (C)   Land survey and reference monument requirements. Land surveys shall be
conducted, and permanent reference monuments shall be placed by the subdivider
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Rules of Kentucky State
Board of Examiners for Engineers and Surveyors Standards of Practice.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.41 SUBDIVISION AND STREET NAMES.
   The developer shall provide names for consideration by the Planning
Administrator or other designated persons for all new streets within the
subdivision proposed to be developed at the time of preliminary plat review.
The proposed name of a subdivision or street within the subdivision shall not
duplicate or closely approximate phonetically the name of any other subdivision
or street within the city or within Simpson County. The Planning Commission or
City Commission shall have final authority over street names. Proposed streets
that are obviously in alignment with others already existing and named should
bear the names of existing streets.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.42 STREET DESIGN PRINCIPLES.
   The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the city, and to ensure compliance with the following principles:
   (A)   Streets will respect the built and natural contexts through which they
pass;
   (B)   Streets will support all modes of travel, where contextually
appropriate, to foster the ability for people to choose how they move about the
city;
   (C)   Streets will strike a balance between appropriate vehicular
operational efficiency and safety for all users, regardless of their choice of
travel mode;
   (D)   Street design will support the types of development and redevelopment
appropriate for the character area in which they occur; and
   (E)   Streets will accommodate pedestrian access, movement, and protection
for the physically able, physically challenged, children or seniors within
appropriate areas of the city.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.43 CONFORMITY OF STREET DESIGN AND ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   Conformance with major thoroughfare plan. All proposed streets and
roads and pedestrian accommodations shown on a proposed major subdivision plat
shall conform to the width and location requirements as set forth by the city's
comprehensive plan, and/or these subdivision regulations. See the Roadway and
Drainage Technical Standards Appendix D of this chapter for supplemental design
standards and broad cross-section graphics.
   (B)   Relation to adjoining street system. The Planning Commission shall
require that the proposed street system extend and connect to existing streets
and "road-stubs" wherever feasible. Deviations from this requirement shall be
requested by the applicant as a waiver from these regulations.
   (C)   Major thoroughfare design and right-of-way widths (all streets other
than local streets). Street design standards and minimum right-of-way widths
for all streets are shown in the table below. Should there be a conflict
between an existing major thoroughfare and the subdivision regulations, then
the existing major thoroughfare shall govern. See Appendix D of this chapter
for cross section graphics correlating with the table on the following page.
   (D)   Dedication of right-of-way for one or both sides of street. The entire
right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both
sides of the existing street. When the subdivision is located on only one side
of an existing street, one- half of the required right-of-way measured from the
centerline of the existing roadway, shall be provided.
   (E)   Improvement of substandard roads. In approving a plat for a
development, the Planning Commission may require that impacted substandard city
roads prior to the adoption of these regulations be improved by the developer
to the minimum standards contained in these regulations. Such improvements
shall be commensurate with the impact of the proposed development, and whenever
possible, shall be supported by traffic studies conducted at the developer's
expense per the Franklin-Simpson Zoning Regulations and these regulations.
General Roadway Cross Sections - City of Franklin
Street Travel Design Min.     Shoulder Lane              Curb/ Curb Sidewalk
Type   Lanes  Speed  Right of Width*   Width  Turn Lanes & Gutter   Width
       (Min.) (mph)  Way               (Min.)
General Roadway Cross Sections - City of Franklin
Street    Travel Design Min.     Shoulder Lane              Curb/ Curb Sidewalk
Type      Lanes  Speed  Right of Width*   Width  Turn Lanes & Gutter   Width
          (Min.) (mph)  Way               (Min.)
Place or  2      20     20'      n/a      9'     n/a        yes        n/a
Alley
Lane      2      25     50'      n/a      10'    n/a        yes        5'
Minor     2      30     50'      n/a      13'    n/a        yes        5'
Collector
Major     2      40     60'      -        14'    n/a        yes        5'
Collector
Arterial  2      45+    80'      -        14'    yes        n/a        6' - 8'
Marginal  2      25     40'      n/a      13'    n/a        yes        n/a
Access
 
Minimum right of way should be determined upon context and the potential number
of travel lanes
*Shoulder width can vary based on designation (e.g., bike route)
Places and Lanes-Minor Local Roads include both these types
   (F)   Restriction of access. When a tract fronts on a collector, arterial or
major highway the Planning Commission may require that such lots have access
provided from a marginal access street or from adjacent streets with internal
access.
   (G)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys are minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street. Wherever reasonable, alleys accessing the rear of lots should be
utilized for all land uses. Alley access should be encouraged by the Planning
Commission as an alternative to front access off of streets. In some cases,
alley access shall be the only option, as with commercial and mixed-use areas
where a pattern of front driveways does not already exist because of a
pedestrian orientation and shallow building front setbacks. Alleys can also be
an alternative to cross-access requirements since they perform the same
function at the rear of lots.
      (2)   In planned unit developments, in which deviations from standard lot
widths may be allowed, alleys shall be required, and front driveways prohibited
for blocks featuring any residential lots that are 50 feet or less in width.
      (3)   Alleys shall have a minimum width of 20 feet and a maximum width of
24 feet.
      (4)   In no case shall maintenance of alleys become the responsibility of
the city. All alleys shall be maintained in perpetuity by a Homeowners' or
other property owner's association.
   (H)   Dead end streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac streets may only be planned where conditions require
their use because of barriers to connecting to other existing or planned
streets such as topographic challenges, streams, railroad lines, and similar
natural or manmade barriers. Cul-de-sac streets may not have a length greater
than 1,500 feet unless approved by the Planning Commission for stated reasons
related to topography or other physical hardship.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall require the developer to provide
public street access to adjoining properties where feasible. Proposed streets
shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property. Such dead-end
streets, when their length exceeds 150 feet, shall provide a turnaround having
the right-of-way diameter of at least 100 feet and built as specified in these
subdivision regulations. Additional guidelines for dead end streets are
contained in the Roadway and Drainage Technical Standards Appendix to these
regulations. Temporary cul-de-sacs will be required with the phasing of street
sections.
   (I)   Private streets and reserve strips.
      (1)   There shall be no private streets platted in any subdivision. Every
lot in all other subdivided properties shall continuously abut at least one
public street for the minimum lot width as set forth in the zoning regulations.
      (2)   There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets.
      (3)   Gated communities must provide police, utility, and emergency
vehicle access by Knox Box or equivalent. All such entities must approve the
Knox Box system with an approval letter provided to the Planning Administrator
with the final plat. No building permits will be granted until all entities
have confirmed access ability to the said Know Box to the Planning
Administrator.
   (J)   Access to public roads.
      (1)   No lot may be less than 75 feet wide at any point between the front
building setback line and the road right of way or as specified in the zoning
regulations.
      (2)   No new lot shall be created which does not continuously abut at
least one public street for at least 75 feet. An easement shall not satisfy
this requirement.
      (3)   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not continuously
abut at least one public street for at least 75 feet. An easement shall not
satisfy this requirement.
      (4)   The following exceptions shall apply to this section:
         (a)   Lots approved as part of a planned unit development.
         (b)   Previously existing lots of record with easements to a public
street. There can only be one tract accessing the private street/road easement.
         (c)   A lot with more than one-half its frontage on the bulb of a cul-
de-sac must continuously abut the street for at least 30 feet.
         (d)   Parcels or tracts of land which contain five acres or more.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.44 BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   General. Blocks shall be laid out with special attention given to the
type of land use and development form contemplated, and they shall be
rectilinear unless natural or man-made barriers constrain such a form.
   (B)   Key design factors. The size and shape of blocks shall be determined
with consideration of the following issues:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      (2)   Zoning regulations and Health Department requirements for lot sizes
and dimensions.
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      (4)   Environmental opportunities and constraints.
   (C)   Block lengths. Block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed
1,200 feet nor be less than 200 feet or four lot widths whichever is greater,
except as the Planning Commission deems necessary to secure efficient use of
land or desired features of the street pattern. Wherever practicable, blocks
along arterial streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length. For blocks
over 600 feet long, the Commission may require mid-block public crosswalks at
least ten feet wide, especially when providing access to schools, shopping
areas, parks, other community facilities, and similar places accommodating a
significant number of pedestrians.
   (D)   Block widths. Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots
of minimum depth, except where fronting on freeways, expressways, major
thoroughfares or rail lines, or prevented by topographical conditions or size
of the property. In such case, the Planning Commission may approve a
subdivision containing a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
   (E)   Commercial and mixed-use blocks. Blocks used for commercial and mixed-
use purposes, not including industrial areas, shall be no longer than 600 feet
and the perimeter shall not exceed 2,400 feet.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.45 LOTS.
   (A)   Adequate building sites.
      (1)   Each lot intended for building improvements shall contain an area
outside the limits of any existing easement or building setback lines required
in the zoning regulations. This does not apply to common open space lots with
no structure(s).
      (2)   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient to permit the
additional side yard requirements of the zoning regulations or building setback
lines outlined above.
      (3)   All lots that have some geographic feature (i.e., sinkhole,
floodplain, or drainage easements) that would affect the location and
construction of a structure/building, parking, accessory structures, or
utilities (i.e., water, sewer, septic tank, well, electricity, phone) shall
have a specific notation placed on the affected lot or in an appropriate
location on the final plat by the applicant's engineer or surveyor that is
readily visible.
   (B)   Arrangement. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. Each lot must
front upon a public street or road, except as permitted under these
regulations.
   (C)   Critical lots. 
      (1)   Lots may be designated as critical based on soil conditions,
susceptibility to flood inundation, karst features, stream encroachments,
degree of slope or other lot features to address concerns related to the
feasibility of construction as determined by the City Engineer. Generally, a
lot will be designated critical when the slope is greater than 12%. A star
symbol shall be used to identify critical lots on the face of both the
preliminary and final plats.
      (2)   Prior to application for a building permit on a lot designed as
"critical," a plan shall be submitted to the City Engineer for approval. The
plan shall provide a survey of existing conditions and details of the proposed
development on the lot. Critical lots will not be released for construction of
a structure until a critical lot plan is approved by the City Engineer. The
City Engineer shall be specifically authorized to require that floor elevations
be raised as part of a critical lot plan, whether or not the lot in question
lies within a regulatory flood area.
   (D)   Retaining walls.
      (1)   The standard policy of the Planning and Building Codes Departments
is as follows for retaining wall design. This policy is based on the section
R404.4 Retaining Walls as contained in the International Residential Code.
      (2)   Retaining walls that are not laterally supported at the top and
that retain in excess of 48 inches (1219 mm) of unbalanced fill, or retaining
walls exceeding 24 inches (610 mm) in height that resist lateral loads in
addition to soil, shall be designed in accordance with accepted engineering
practice to ensure stability against overturning, sliding, excessive foundation
pressure and water uplift. Retaining walls shall be designed for a safety
factor of 1.5 against lateral sliding and overturning. This section shall not
apply to foundation walls supporting buildings.
      (3)   For commercial projects, additional IBC references: 1610.1;
1803.5.12; 1807.2.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.46 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Maintenance plan and agreement.
      (1)   Every land development or construction activity that results in the
construction of permanent stormwater management facilities, including but not
limited to detention ponds, rain gardens, or any other facility intended to
manage stormwater quality or quantity shall provide a permanent stormwater
maintenance plan and agreement that provides for the perpetual care and
maintenance of the stormwater management facilities for the development by an
entity other than the City of Franklin and/or Simpson County. Such perpetual
residential stormwater facility care will be in all instances the
responsibility of the Homeowner's Association (see Appendix A for a
definition).
      (2)   The maintenance plan and zgreement shall operate as a deed
restriction binding on the current and all subsequent property owners and their
lessees and assigns, including but not limited to homeowner associations or
other groups or entities. A template for said agreement is to be provided to
the Public Works Director.
   (B)   Master deed or covenants. All subdivisions required by the city zoning
regulations to have a Homeowner's Association (HOA), as well as any subdivision
electing to establish a HOA, shall include provisions in their Master Deed, or
declaration of covenants, to provide for a sufficient level of funding to
offset the reasonable and foreseeable costs of the perpetual maintenance of all
drainage infrastructure within the subdivision.
   (C)   Utility and drainage easement. All stormwater infrastructure must be
located completely within a public utility and drainage easement. Minimum total
easement width is 20 feet. Deviations from this requirement may be requested in
writing to the Planning Administrator. Easement widths must be large enough to
accommodate infrastructure and maintenance needs. Drainage easements for all
detention or retention facilities shall extend a minimum of 25 feet from the
outer limits of the pond perimeter. Access to all such facilities must be
clearly delineated on the construction plans and the recorded plat.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.47 SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS (SEPTIC TANKS).
   (A)   Reserved area for septic systems. Subdivision lots not provided with
city sewer access shall have adequate area for the installation of an approved
septic system onsite and shall not rely on an easement from adjoining property
for sewage. Appeals to this rule may be made via a variance or exception
request to the Planning Administrator, which may grant an exception at its
discretion. The date of any approved appeals shall be clearly noted upon the
final recorded plat.
   (B)   State regulations. Proposed building sites shall meet the requirements
of the State of Kentucky's regulations to govern subsurface sewage disposal
systems.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.48 AREAS SUBJECT TO PERIODIC FLOODING OR INUNDATION.
   Any tract of land with Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designated
floodway and/or floodplain, or in an area known or calculated to be subject to
periodic flooding or inundation as determined by the City Engineer, shall be
subject to all applicable provisions contained in the city zoning regulations
or with FEMA guidelines per the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.49 BUILDING SETBACKS, PROXIMITY TO ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINES.
   In the case of electric transmission lines where easement widths are not
definitely established, a minimum building setback line from the center of the
transmission line shall be established as follows:
 
Voltage of Line Building Setback
46 KV           37.5 feet
69 KV           50 feet
161 KV          75 feet
 
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.50 ACCESS TO LOTS.
   (A)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall
be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterials, or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation. When double frontage occurs, the road frontage
adjacent to the rear of the associated buildings shall be heavily screened with
a naturalistic complete year-round buffer to minimize visibility from that
roadway. Such landscaping must include a sufficient number of evergreens or
other buffer approved by the Planning Commission to achieve this requirement
during winter months. All of that landscaping must occur on the subject lot as
opposed to within the adjacent ROW. See Appendix F of this chapter for buffer
details.
   (B)   Access from arterial or collector streets. The Planning Commission may
require that lots shall not, if avoidable, derive access exclusively from
arterial or collector streets. Where driveway access from arterial or collector
streets may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the Planning Commission
may require that the lots be served by a combined access drive in order to
limit possible traffic hazards on such street. Driveways shall be designed and
arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back onto arterial or collector
streets. In no case shall lots deriving sole access from an arterial or major
collector street have widths of less than 200 and 150 feet respectively.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.51 WATER FACILITIES AND FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Necessary action shall be taken by the developer to extend a water
supply system capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection, the
provision of which is hereby declared a priority of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Where a public water main is within reasonable access of the
subdivision, as determined by the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities, subject to the construction and materials
specifications and approval of the State of Kentucky and requirements herein.
This is to include installation of fire hydrants where required by these
provisions or provisions of the local utility provider and only if the water
system can deliver the water flow and water pressure to a fire hydrant of 500-
gpm at 20-psi residual pressure.
      (3)   The sizes of water mains shall not be less than six inches in
diameter.
      (4)   All water systems, whether public or private, located in a flood-
prone area shall be flood- proofed to the regulatory flood protection
elevation. All water supply facilities located below the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be designed to prevent the infiltration of
floodwaters into the water supply system and discharges from the system into
floodwaters.
   (B)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   If the pressure and water flow for public water mains are
sufficient to meet state regulations for fire hydrant installation, fire
hydrants shall be installed in all major subdivisions.
      (2)   If the water system can support the installation of fire hydrants,
then the applicant shall install them such that they shall be located no more
than 500 feet apart and be within 250 feet of any residential, commercial, or
industrial lot. However, the Planning Commission or Public Works Department may
require closer spacing where physical conditions or types of structures so
warrant.
      (3)   If the pressure and flow for public water mains are not sufficient
to meet state regulations for fire hydrant installation, the water system shall
provide sufficient main size per state regulations for fire hydrants and shall
install "stub-out" fittings, appurtenances and valves as required by the fire
hydrant location provisions herein and the local utility provider. The location
of the "stub out" fittings shall be shown on the final plat and on the
construction plans.
      (4)   To eliminate future public way cuttings or openings, all
underground utilities for water facilities and fire hydrants, together with the
fire hydrants themselves, shall be installed before any final paving of a
public way shown on the subdivision plat.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.52 PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Provision of adequate pedestrian facilities as appropriate
throughout the city is hereby declared a priority of the City Commission.
Sidewalks shall be required by the Planning Commission for roadways as set
forth in these regulations and shown in the Roadway and Drainage Technical
Standards.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of the street if the
subdivision encompasses such area. Sidewalk widths shall be at least five feet
in width. Concrete extruded curb or curb and gutter are required for all public
roads where sidewalks are to be constructed.
      (2)   A recommended median strip of grassed or landscaped area five feet
wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs. See Appendix D (§
156.81) for design and alternate details.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall comply with requirements contained in the
Americans with Disabilities Act and Proposed Public Right-of-Way Access
Guidelines (PROWAG) as applicable.
      (4)   The installation of sidewalks shall be required prior to a final
inspection and/or the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
   (B)   Pedestrian accesses. The Planning Commission may require pedestrian
access from public or private roads to schools, parks, playgrounds, or other
nearby public roads. A perpetual unobstructed easement at least 20 feet in
width shall be provided. Easements shall be indicated on the final plat. When a
proposed subdivision abuts such a public facility, the Planning Commission may
require that the developer construct a sidewalk, walking trail, multi-use path
or other pedestrian conveyance to the facility's property boundary. Such
conveyance shall interconnect with the other pedestrian improvements contained
within the development.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.53 STREET LIGHTING.
   All subdivisions in the City of Franklin must be provided with streetlights
with the design to be approved by the Franklin Simpson Electric Plant Board
(EPB) or Warren Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation (WRECC). The electric
supplier will provide streetlights to a subdivision. The developer is
responsible for coordinating with the EPB or WRECC for the street poles or
underground service (see Appendix G (§
156.81) for lighting standards). Street lighting shall be shown on the
subdivision's final plat and shall include all electrical easements. The
general location of street lighting should be shown on the subdivision's
construction plans for informational purposes.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.54 AESTHETICS.
   Subdivision aesthetics and buffer requirements shall be as set forth in
Appendix F (§
156.81).
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND
WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.70 TIMING OF IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Infrastructure installation after final plat approval. Adequate
performance surety for all improvements must be provided by the applicant and
approved by the Planning Commission and city staff and held by the city in
accordance with this subchapter. Such performance surety shall be submitted for
Planning Commission consideration concurrently with the final plat application.
   (B)   In no case shall a final plat be signed by the Planning Commission
Secretary until such time as all depicted infrastructure is fully bonded by and
through the adequate performance surety, and in no case shall building permits
be issued until such time as a final plat is recorded.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.71 PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   (A)   Required improvements. The applicant shall post adequate performance
surety (also referred to herein as "performance surety") for all unconstructed
public improvements shown on the plat and construction plans associated with
that phase or section being recorded. Any amounts necessary for the
construction of drainage structures and improvements depicted on the
construction plans shall also be included in the performance surety. The
developer will submit construction costs (supported by a reputable contractor's
bid) to be reviewed by the city. The city will set the performance surety
amount as sufficient to secure the satisfactory construction, installation, and
acceptance of required improvements. The performance surety shall remain in
force until the improvements comply with the approved construction drawings as
determined by the city and all warranty periods are expired.
   (B)   Performance surety amount. The minimum amount of the performance
surety shall be an amount equal to not less than 120% of the cost of
installation of required improvements. The proposed amount of the cost of
materials and installation of required improvements shall be calculated and
signed by the applicant's contractor and submitted to the city for approval.
The proposed amount shall include a detailed itemized estimate of all items
including incomplete items on the date the estimate is prepared.
   (C)   Composition of performance surety. For the purpose of these
regulations, performance surety shall consist of two documents: a performance
agreement provided to the Public Works Department and an accompanying security
document.
      (1)   The performance agreement. The performance agreement shall be in a
similar form as shown in the relevant appendix to this document and shall
stipulate the work to be performed by general categories and the estimated
value or cost of each category. The performance agreement shall be entered into
by owner or developer of the property, the lending institution, and approved
and signed by the city, but shall run with the land and likewise, jointly and
severally, obligate subsequent owner(s) as stated in the performance agreement.
      (2)   The security document (irrevocable letter of credit). The security
document shall be in a similar form as shown in the relevant appendix to this
document and shall express the value in a total amount equaling the sum of all
work categories. Further, the security document must be acceptable to the city
in its terms, the amount of the security, and financial institution providing
said document.
   (D)   Owner/developer past performance. The letter of credit option shall
not be available to an owner or developer, without specific Planning Commission
approval, whose past performance over the two preceding calendar years has
resulted in breached or expired bonds.
   (E)   Financial institution past performance. A financial institution whose
past performance has resulted in non-payment of a letter of credit may be
excluded from providing a letter of credit for any owner or developer for a
period of five calendar years from the date of breach as determined by the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   Temporary improvements. When applicable, the applicant shall build and
pay for all costs of temporary improvements required by the Planning Commission
and shall maintain such for the period specified by the Planning Commission.
Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, a performance
surety shall be posted which shall insure that the temporary facilities shall
be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
   (G)   Costs of improvements. All required improvements shall be made by the
applicant at the applicant's expense. Any provisions for reimbursement by the
city or any utility district shall be by separate agreement with the city.
   (H)   Governmental agencies. Governmental agencies to which these sureties
and contract provisions apply may file, in lieu of said contract or surety, a
certified resolution, or ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act
in their behalf agreeing to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Failure to complete improvements. In those cases, in which a
performance surety has been posted and required improvements have not been
installed within the terms of such performance surety agreement, the city may
declare the surety to be in default and require that all the improvements be
installed regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the
performance surety is declared to be in default.The funds of the performance
surety shall be used to complete the improvements. The city may, in the pursuit
of executing the committed improvements, exercise the right to file suit
against all entities, jointly and severally, responsible for said obligations.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.72 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   City responsibility. The city shall be responsible for the roads and
drainage inspection on all subdivisions within the city. The city shall be
notified not less than 24 hours in advance of any critical phase of development
including the following:
      (1)   Beginning of the excavation;
      (2)   Preparation of the subgrade;
      (3)   Drainage structures/pipe installation;
      (4)   First lift of the DGA material;
      (5)   Second lift of the DGA material;
      (6)   Asphalt base; and
      (7)   Asphalt surfacing.
   (B)   Applicant responsibility. If the city finds that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the approved
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements to the required standards. Whenever the cost of
improvements is covered by a performance surety, the applicant and the bonding
company or financial institution shall be liable jointly and severally for
completing said improvements according to specifications.
   (C)   Completion of roads. Thirty-six months after the approved installation
of the asphalt binder course or after 75% of the lots have a Certificate of
Occupancy, whichever is sooner, all roads included on the final plat must be
completed in accordance with the City Roadway and Drainage Technical Standards
appendix of these regulations, to include final asphalt surface course.
   (D)   Drainage facilities. Before a building permit shall be issued, all
drainage facilities must be installed per the approved construction plans.
Also, all areas within the limits of the final plat, if no construction is
being performed, must have final site stabilization. These areas must be
inspected and approved by the city.
   (E)   As-built plans. All applicants are required to submit "as-built" plans
for all roadways and drainage structures located on site after final
construction is complete. The plans must show the final design specifications
for all infrastructure and must be sealed by a registered Professional Land
Surveyor or Engineer licensed to practice in the State of Kentucky. A final
inspection and approval of submitted as-built drawings by the city is required
before any building permits will be issued and/or performance surety will be
released.
   (F)   Protection of site and adjoining sites. During the progress of
construction, the contractor shall remove all debris, unused materials, and
trash from the site before the construction is completed. He shall restore the
site to a well-graded appearance. Trash, man-made materials, stumps, or other
debris shall not be left on site or buried onsite.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.73 WARRANTY PERIOD AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   After the final surface asphalt course is installed and all other
improvements represented on the final plat and construction plans are complete,
the Engineer of Record shall submit a stamped Certification of Completion to
the City Public Works Director. After a final inspection is completed by the
city and verification that all improvements are in agreement with the final
plat and construction plans, notification will be given to the developer of the
beginning of a one year minimum warranty period. A warranty bond in the amount
of not less than 10% of the surety amount, as determined and required by the
city, will remain in place during the warranty period to cover any warranty or
maintenance issues that may arise.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.74 REDUCTION, EXTENSION, OR RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   (A)   Reduction of performance surety. After a written request from the
developer, received no later than 60 days prior to the expiration of a
performance surety, a performance surety may be reduced upon demonstration of
satisfactory completion of public improvements, and then only to the ratio that
the installed improvement bears to the total public improvements for the
subdivision. The initial surety reduction shall be considered only after the
asphalt surface binder is applied to the entire subdivision phase as platted.
There shall be no reduction or release of a surety if there are any outstanding
administrative penalties or violations related to the bonded/surety secured
site.
   (B)   Extension of performance sureties. The Planning Commission may, upon
proof of extenuating circumstances by the applicant, vote to extend the
completion date set forth in such surety by a period of time not to exceed one
year. One additional extension of a period of time not to exceed six months may
be approved by the Planning Commission, upon proof of extenuating circumstances
shown by the applicant. At the time either of these two extensions is applied
for, the Public Works Director may modify the amount of the surety in order to
cover the costs of the remaining improvements.
   (C)   Release of performance surety. The performance surety shall not be
released until the Certification of Completion from the Engineer of Record is
approved by the Public Works Director and acceptance of all infrastructure that
is required to be accepted within the right-of-way by the city.
   (D)   Defer to Planning Commission. The Public Works Director may at his/her
discretion, defer decisions to reduce, extend or release a surety to the
Planning Commission, with such requests to be heard only at regularly scheduled
meetings of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.75 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements, including all
lot improvements, until acceptance of such public improvements by the
appropriate department or maintenance responsibilities become the
responsibility of a Homeowner's Association.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.76 EXPIRATION OF SURETY.
   Should the surety lapse or expire for any reason prior to completion of all
required improvements, no additional building permits shall be issued and any
and all appropriate legal action necessary may be taken to assure completion of
improvements or reinstatement of the surety. The surety may be declared in
default and the security shall be held by the city. Only after completion of
all improvements or posting of a new surety shall building permits again be
issued.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.77 DISPOSITION OF LIQUIDATED SECURITIES.
   Funds derived from liquidation of securities as a result of performance
agreement default shall be used by the applicable city department or utility
district to stabilize the site and complete work deemed essential by the city.
Project administration fees may be charged by the departments or utility
district against liquidated funds to offset actual personnel or equipment costs
utilized in the accomplishment of required work. Any surplus funds shall be
returned to the security provider after all charges and expenses are paid and
required work is accepted.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
APPENDICES
§ 156.80 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Rules for construction of language. In the construction of these
subdivision regulations, the rules contained in this section shall be observed
and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   The particular shall control the general.
      (2)   The word SHALL is always mandatory.
      (3)   The word MAY is permissive.
      (4)   The word LOT shall include the words PIECE or PARCEL.
      (5)   The word STRUCTURE includes all other structures, or parts thereof,
of every kind regardless of similarity to buildings; and the phrase USED FOR
shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED FOR, MAINTAINED
FOR, and OCCUPIED FOR.
      (6)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of these subdivision regulations and any caption, illustration or table
the text shall control.
      (7)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless
the context clearly indicates the contrary.
      (8)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, conjunctions
shall be interpreted as follows:
         (a)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply.
         (b)   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items,
conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
         (c)   "Either or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply single but not in combination.
      (9)   All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which reference is
made are those of Franklin, Kentucky.
      (10)   The title PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR shall refer to the City Planning
Administrator or an authorized city representative.
      (11)   The title CITY ENGINEER shall refer to the City Engineer or an
authorized city representative.
   (B)   Definitions. Except where definitions are specifically included in
various sections of these subdivision regulations, words in the text or tables
shall be interpreted in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
section. Where words have not been defined, the standard dictionary definition
shall prevail.
      AASHTO. Abbreviation for "American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials."
      ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
      APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his authorized
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      ARCHITECT. See REGISTERED ARCHITECT.
      ARTERIAL ROAD. A road intended to move traffic to and from major
industrial areas or a route for traffic between communities or large areas.
Arterial streets and highways are those which will be used primarily for high
vehicular speeds or heavy volumes of traffic with an ADT over 3000.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, or shorelines of
waterways.
      BOND. A letter of credit or insurance bond in a form specified by these
regulations.
      BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind. The term includes
any permanent structure including mobile homes.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the city to enforce building
codes. (Same as Building Commissioner.)
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. A proposed schedule of all future projects,
listed in order of construction priority, together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project.
      CMP. Abbreviation for CORRUGATED METAL PIPE.
      COLLECTOR ROAD. A road (street) intended to move traffic from local roads
to arterial routes. A collector road serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision. Minor collector streets are those which will carry intermediate
volumes of traffic with an ADT from 501 to 1000. Major collector streets are
those which will carry intermediate volumes of traffic with an ADT from 1001 to
3000.
      COMMON ELEMENTS. Any portion of a condominium which is held in common by
owners of condominium units. These elements may be either general common
elements or limited common elements, as defined below.
         (a)   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS.  Any of the common elements of a
condominium which are held in joint ownership by all owners of the condominium.
         (b)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS. Any of the common elements of a
condominium which are reserved for use by the owner of a particular condominium
unit or group of units.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Any current adopted Comprehensive Plan for Franklin,
Kentucky.
      CONCEPT PLAN. A general plan layout used to review the possible
development /subdividing of property.
      CONDOMINIUM. A form of ownership of less than the whole of a building or
system of buildings under a statute which provides the mechanics and facilities
for formal filing and recordation of divided interests in real property, where
the division is vertical as well as horizontal.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of property through the
establishment of a condominium or horizontal property regime.
         (a)   HORIZONTAL CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. A condominium subdivision
where each unit occupies some ground space.
         (b)   VERTICAL CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. A condominium subdivision of a
multi-story building in which one or more units do not occupy ground area.
      CONDOMINIUM UNIT. A dwelling unit conveyed by separate title and located
within a condominium.
      CONSOLIDATED PLAT. A drawing showing the combination of any number of
existing lots of record into an equal or lesser number of lots, as described in
their regulations.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in
the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the Planning Commission.
Construction plans are also defined herein to specifically include documents
required by these subdivision regulations and the Franklin Stormwater
Management Ordinance, to include drainage calculations, erosion prevention and
sediment control plans, and permanent stormwater management plans. Construction
plans are required for all major subdivisions in the City of Franklin Planning
Region.
      CITY. The City of Franklin, Kentucky.
      CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney holding the position of attorney for the city
or such licensed attorney designated by the City Attorney to furnish legal
assistance for the administration of these regulations.
      CITY COMMISSION. The chief legislative body for Franklin, Kentucky.
      CRITICAL AREAS or LOTS. Lots or areas designated as critical based on
soil conditions, susceptibility to flood inundation, karst features, degree of
slope or other lot features to address concerns related to the feasibility of
construction as determined by the City Engineer.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his authorized
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      DOW. Abbreviation for Kentucky Division of Water.
      DWELLING UNIT. One room or rooms connected together constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or rental
or lease on a daily, weekly, monthly, or longer basis; physically separated
from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure; and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
      EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
      ENGINEER. See REGISTERED ENGINEER or CITY ENGINEER, as appropriate
depending upon the context.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. The delineation of floodway limits so that
floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are capable of conveying a
proportionate share of flood flows. This is determined by considering the
hydraulic conveyance of the floodplain along both sides of a stream for a
significant reach.
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the city or other entity in lieu of an
amount or improvement required.
      EXTERNAL SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY. All points along the periphery of a
subdivision.
      FEMA. Abbreviation for FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
      FHWA. Abbreviation for FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.
      FINAL PLAT. See FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT.
      FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing and accompanying
materials, described in these regulations, on which the subdivider's plan of
the subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission for approval and which,
if approved, may be submitted to the Simpson County Clerk for recording.
      FIRM. Abbreviation for FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream level that results in inundation of
areas not ordinarily covered by water. See ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The statistically determined average for how often a
specific flood level or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The maximum area of the floodplain that, on the
average, is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of being flooded in any given year).
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. An official map, issued by the federal
insurance administrator, on which the boundaries of the floodplain areas having
special flood hazards have been delineated.
      FLOODPLAIN. A land area adjoining a river, stream, watercourse, bay, or
lake which is likely to be flooded. See ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD, FLOODWAY, and
FLOODWAY FRINGE. The floodplain is composed of a floodway and floodway fringe.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, building code regulations,
health regulations, zoning regulations, and these subdivision regulations.
      FLOOD PROFILE. A graph showing the water-surface elevation or height of a
particular flood event for any point along the longitudinal course of a stream.
The flood profile is determined through the use of standard open channel
hydraulic calculations.
      FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Same as FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
      FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or
eliminate potential flood damage to lands; water facilities, sanitary
facilities and other utilities; structures; and contents of buildings and which
prevent pollution of floodwaters from such natural or man-made sources.
      FLOODWAY. The stream channel and adjacent overbank area required to carry
and safely discharge the 100-year flood without increasing flood levels more
than one foot above natural flood levels.
      FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LIMITS. The lines marking the limits of floodways
on official federal, state, and local floodplain maps, including such maps as
are included in the appendix of these regulations.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area adjoining a watercourse which, although not
lying within a floodway, has been or may hereafter be covered by a 100-year
flood. See ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.
      FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side of a corner lot.
      FRONTAGE STREET. Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
      FUTURE LAND USE PLAN. The general development plan for Franklin,
Kentucky. This plan meets the intent of Kentucky Code Annotated.
      GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS. See COMMON ELEMENTS.
      GIS. Abbreviation for GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS.
      GRADE. The slope of a road or other public way, specified in percentage
terms.
      HEALTH AUTHORITY. Refers to the Simpson County Health Department.
      HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS. A freeway or expressway providing a traffic way
for through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from
the traffic way, except at such points and in such manner as may be determined
by the public authority having jurisdiction over such traffic way.
      HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION. A Homeowner's Association (HOA) is an
organization in a subdivision, planned community, or condominium building that
makes and enforces rules for the properties and its residents. Those who
purchase property within an HOA's jurisdiction automatically become members and
are required to pay dues, known as HOA fees. Some associations can be very
restrictive about what members can do with their properties. HOAs are
completely responsible for perpetuity for the maintenance of all common areas
within a subdivision including monument signs, detention basins, drainage
swales, streams, landscape areas, required buffers, fences, bioretention
features, common buildings, and all other common features and appurtenances.
      HORIZONTAL CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. See CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION.
      HORIZONTAL PROPERTY ACT. The Kentucky Horizontal Property Law as codified
in Kentucky Code Annotated.
      HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. See ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.
      IMPROVEMENTS. See LOT IMPROVEMENT or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device other than a public
treatment system approved by the appropriate local or state government
authorities.
      INTERNAL SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY. All points within a subdivision which do
not constitute external boundaries.
      ITE. Abbreviation for INSTITUTE OF TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS.
      JOINT OWNERSHIP. Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the
same owner; constructive ownership for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
      KYTC. Abbreviation for KENTUCKY TRANSPORTATION CABINET.
      LAND SURVEYOR. See REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.
      LANE. A road which is not classified as an arterial or collector road.
Sometimes referred to as local roads or streets. Minor streets are those which
are used primarily for access to the abutting properties, and which will carry
limited volumes of traffic with an ADT greater than 200 and less than 500. See
ARTERIAL ROAD and COLLECTOR ROAD.
      LOS. Abbreviation for LEVEL OF SERVICE. A measure used by traffic
engineers to analyze highways by categorizing traffic flow with corresponding
safe driving conditions, typically shown by letter designation A through F.
      LOT. A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer or
ownership or for building development.
      LOT CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 75 degrees.
      LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
      MAJOR ROAD. A road which is classified as a collector or arterial road
according to these regulations or by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for
the Planning Region. See ARTERIAL ROAD, and COLLECTOR ROAD.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions, of three or more lots or
subdivisions of any size requiring any new or improved road, the extension of
city limits or city facilities, or the creation of any public improvements or
containing any flood-prone area.
      MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. Minor road or street which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which reduce the number of
access points to the arterial street for the purpose of increased traffic
safety.
      MINOR ROAD. See MINOR STREET.
      MINOR STREET. A road which is not classified as an arterial or collector
road. Sometimes referred to as local roads or streets. Minor streets are those
which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties and which will
carry limited volumes of traffic with an ADT less than 500. See
PLACE, LANE, ARTERIAL ROAD, and COLLECTOR ROAD.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than two lots
fronting on an existing street; not involving any new or improved road, the
extension of city facilities, or the creation of any public improvements and
not containing any flood-prone area, not adversely affecting the remainder of
the parcel or adjoining property, not requiring any variance, and not in
conflict with any provision of an adopted Future Land Use Plan, Major
Thoroughfare Plan, zoning regulations, or these regulations.
      NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM. A program established by the U.S.
government in the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and expanded in the
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 in order to provide flood insurance at
rates made affordable through a federal subsidy in local political
jurisdictions which adopt and enforce flood plain management programs meeting
the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
      OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
      ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a 1% annual chance of occurring or
being exceeded in any given year. The base flood as it is commonly referred, is
the national standard used by the NFIP for the purpose of requiring flood
insurance and regulating new developments. It is based on statistical analysis
of stream flow records available for the watershed and analysis of rainfall and
runoff characteristics in the general region of the watershed.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the real property.
      OWNERSHIP, SAME. See SAME OWNERSHIP.
      PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
      PLACE. A place is a short street, a cul-de-sac, or court which are used
primarily for access to the abutting properties and which will carry limited
volumes of traffic with a projected ADT of 200 or less.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Franklin-Simpson Planning and Zoning Commission
created in accordance with the Kentucky Code Annotated.
      PLANNING REGION. All land, lying within the boundaries of the City of
Franklin Planning Region as established by the Kentucky State Planning Office.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner of layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
      PREMISES.  A tract of land together with any buildings or structures
which may be thereon.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city or city may ultimately assume the responsibility
for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for city or
city responsibility is established.
      RCP. Abbreviation for REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal segments of
a stream or river. A reach generally includes the segment of the flood hazard
area where flood heights are influenced by a man-made or natural obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings typically would constitute a reach.
      RECORDING INFORMATION. The date, location (plat book, record book, etc.)
and any other pertinent information regarding the recording of a document.
      REGISTER. Simpson County Clerk or office thereof.
      REGISTERED ARCHITECT. An architect certified and registered by the State
Board of Architectural and Engineer Examiners pursuant to the Kentucky Code
Annotated, to practice in Kentucky; or a landscape architect certified and
licensed by the State Board of Landscape Architects pursuant to the Kentucky
Code Annotated,to practice in Kentucky.
      REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer certified and registered by the State
Board of Architectural and Engineer Examiners pursuant to the Kentucky Code
Annotated, to practice in Kentucky.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor certified and registered by the
State Board of Land Survey Examiners pursuant to the Kentucky Code Annotated,
to practice in Kentucky.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The 100-year flood. See ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water-surface elevation of the regulatory
flood.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the regulatory
flood plus one foot of freeboard to provide a safety factor.
      RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of any approved or recorded subdivision
plat if such change affects any street layout on such map or any area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission lines, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer line, or for another special use.
The usage of the term "right-of-way," for land platting purposes, shall mean
that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to
be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
      ROAD, CLASSIFICATION. For the purpose of providing for the development of
the streets, highways, roads, and rights-of-way in the planning region and for
their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary widening,
including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street, highway,
road, and right-of-way and those located on approved and filed plats have been
classified herein. The classification of each street, highway, road, and right-
of-way is based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the
city, its present and estimated future traffic volume, and its relative
importance and function as specified in any comprehensive plan.
      ROAD, DEAD-END. A road or a portion of a road with only one vehicular-
traffic outlet.
      ROAD, RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the road.
      SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, including
contract of sale or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, or other written
instrument.
      SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner, associate, or a member of his family owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
      SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT PUMP (STEP) SYSTEM. An alternative sanitary sewer
disposal system.
      SETBACK. The distance between a building and the street line nearest
thereto.
      SKETCH PLAT. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat (or final subdivision plat, in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable
the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
Planning Commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these
regulations. See CONCEPT PLAN.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD MAP. The official map designated by the federal
insurance administrator to identify floodplain areas having special flood
hazards.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. The beginning of the alteration of a site for
permanent development. Start of construction typically begins with the grading
process to alter the site toward its permanent design.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE. The currently adopted Stormwater
Management Ordinance for the City of Franklin, Kentucky.
      STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place or otherwise designated. See ROAD, CLASSIFICATION.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed above or below ground.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
         (a)   Has an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to
be divided into a subdivision;
         (b)   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases or develops or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease, or development, any
interest, lot, parcel, site, unit, or plot in a subdivision;
         (c)   Engages, directly or indirectly or through an agent, in the
business of selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or
development a subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or plot in a
subdivision; or
         (d)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by or under direct or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing. See SUBDIVISION.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
sale or building development and includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate
to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area
subdivided, provided, however, that 'subdivision' does not include a division
of any tract or parcel of land into two or more tracts or parcels when such
parts or parcels are larger than five acres in size for the purpose of
agriculture. The term SUBDIVISION includes the process of subdivision or
division of residential or non-residential land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, map, plat, or other recorded instrument. Additionally, any
division or redivision of land into parcels occurring within 12 months
following a division of the same land shall be deemed a subdivision within the
meaning of this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents or acts for or on behalf of
a subdivider or developer in selling, leasing, or developing or offering to
sell, lease, or develop any interest, lot, another person consists solely of
rendering legal service.
      SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION. The point in time when the developer has
completed all required public and private improvements to the project site and
all required public improvements off-site relative to the project in accordance
with the approved construction documents and Planning Commission conditions,
and such improvements have been inspected, tested and approved by the City
Engineer or his designee.
      SUBSTANTIAL, IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the actual cash value of
the structure either before the improvement is begun or, if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. Substantial
improvement begins when the first alteration of any structural part of the
building commences.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement built and maintained by a
subdivider during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the
performance bond, the cash deposited in escrow, or a letter of credit designed
to ensure completion of required improvements.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN (MAJOR). An adopted plan for roadways in need of
expansion and adopted by the city. The plan is to serve as notice to the public
for developing land adjacent to these identified roads.
      VERTICAL CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. See CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The heights in relation to mean sea level
expected to reach by floods of various magnitudes and frequencies at pertinent
points in the floodplain. Also, the level of natural flows or collections of
water which may be expected to be found above or below surface.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.81 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Appendices B through I of these Subdivision Regulations, as attached to
Ordinance 2022-007, are hereby adopted by reference as if laid out herein in
their entirety. These Appendices can be viewed digitally in PDF format.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES VIOLATIONS
§ 156.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of these regulations and penalties for the unapproved
recordation of transfer of land are provided by state law in the uthority
granted by public acts of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and are in addition to
or in conjunction with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   Planning Commission approval for recording of lots. No plat or plan
for a subdivision of land into two or more lots located within the area of
planning jurisdiction shall be admitted to the land records of the city or
received or recorded by the Simpson County Clerk until said plat or plan has
received final approval in writing by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Acceptance of improvements. No board, public officer, or authority
shall accept any street, lay or authorize the layout of water mains or sewers,
or the construction of other facilities or utilities in any street located
within the area of planning jurisdiction unless such street shall have been
accepted, opened or otherwise received the legal status of a public street
prior to the adoption of these regulations.
   (C)   Access to lots by permanent easements. No building permit shall be
issued, and no building shall be erected on any lot within the city, unless
such building site conforms to the following provisions:
      (1)   The street giving access to the lot upon which the building is
proposed to be placed has been opened as, or shall have otherwise, received the
legal status of, a public street prior to that time; or
      (2)   The street corresponds in its location and lines with a street
shown on a subdivision plat approved by the Planning Commission and recorded in
the office of the Simpson County Clerk and where an adequate guarantee or
performance surety of and for the completion of improvements is in place.
   (D)   Building permits. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided
or sold in violation of any provision of these regulations.
   (E)   Enforcing officer. It shall be the duty of the Planning Administrator,
Code Enforcement Officer and/or his, her, or their designees to enforce these
regulations and to bring the violations or lack of compliance with these
regulations to the attention of the City Attorney and/or the Franklin-Simpson
Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 156.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Planning Commission approval requirement. The Simpson County Clerk
shall not receive, file, or record a plat of a subdivision within the city
without the approval of the Planning Commission, with the written approval to
accompany the plat for filing.
   (B)   Unlawful building or structure. Any building or structure erected or
to be erected in violation of the subdivision regulations shall be deemed an
unlawful building or structure, and the Planning Administrator, Code
Enforcement Officer, or the local or state Building Inspector may bring action
to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed.
   (C)   Land sold in violation of subdivision regulations. When it has been
discovered that land has been sold or transferred, or that a contract has been
entered into for the sale or transfer of land in violation of the provisions of
these regulations, the owner or owners of record shall file plats of the land
in accordance with these regulations. When land is sold or transferred, or a
contract has been entered into for the sale or transfer of land in violation of
these regulations, the land shall be governed by the subdivision regulations
both prior to and after the platting of the land by the owner of record as if a
plat had been filed in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
Plats filed pursuant to these regulations may be filed by the last transferee
in the chain of title including holders of deeds, which may otherwise be void
under KRS 100.277(2).
   (D)   Penalties. (KRS 100.991)
      (1)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of KRS
100.273 to 100.292 or any of these subdivision regulations adopted pursuant
thereto for which no other penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $10 but not more than $500 for each conviction. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Any person, owner or agent who violates these regulations shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each lot or
parcel which was subject of sale or transfer, or a contract for sale or
transfer.
      (3)   The Planning Commission or the city may appoint enforcement
officers who shall have authority to issue citations for violations of these
regulations, which the officer has observed, but shall not have powers of peace
officers to make arrests or carry deadly weapons. The defendant shall appear
within a designated time pursuant to the citation. The procedure for citations
issued by an enforcement officer shall be as provided in the City of Franklin
Code of Ordinances relating to issuances of notices of violations and citations
for code enforcement.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 157: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
157.01   Adoption
§ 157.01 ADOPTION.
   The Comprehensive Plan which was the subject of a public hearing by the
Franklin-Simpson County Planning and Zoning Commission on Tuesday, May 21, 2024
and subsequently reviewed and finally approved on Tuesday, June 18, 2024, is
hereby adopted and all of the provisions, conditions and terms of such
Comprehensive Plan on file in the office of the Franklin-Simpson County
Planning and Zoning Commission are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 110.20-11-2009, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 2024-021, passed 7-8-2024)
CHAPTER 158: ZONING CODE
Section
   
158.01   Adoption
§ 158.01 ADOPTION.
   The zoning ordinance and any and all amendments thereto are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 950.4A, passed 4-11-1983; Ord. 920.0-9-85, passed 9-9-1985; Ord. 900.10-
1998, passed 11-23-1998; Ord. 900.11-10-2004, passed 10-28-2004; Ord. 900.56-
2004, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 920.2-11-2005, passed 2-13-2005; Ord. 900.11-11-
2007, passed 1-14-2008; Ord. 2015-17, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 2018-001, passed
3-12-2018; Ord. 2019-006, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2019-018, passed 8-12-2019;
Ord. 2019-026, passed 12-9-2019; Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-24-2020; Ord. 2020-
015, passed 9-28-2020; Ord. 2020-017, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 2021-021, passed
9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-026, passed 1-9-2023; Ord. 2023-018, passed 5-22-2023)
CHAPTER 159: ACQUIRING CERTAIN CITY- OWNED PROPERTY
Section
   
159.01   Purpose
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Requirements for disposition of property
   
159.04   Post disposition/contract activities and sale procedures and authority
to promulgate regulations
   
159.05   Actions to comply with the Fair Housing Act
§ 159.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a predictable and functional
uniform policy and procedure governing the disposition of certain real property
that is surplus to the needs of the city that has been acquired by the city by
and through certain code enforcement procedures, condemnations, or donations,
which were blighted or deteriorated properties which can be redeveloped,
rehabilitated or reused for higher and better proper and lawful uses. Nothing
in this chapter shall be read to limit the legislative discretion of the Board
of City Commissioners to control city-owned real property or to require the
city to dispose of city-owned real property or limit the power of the city to
dispose of city-owned real property as interests of the city may require.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   BLIGHT, BLIGHTED or DETERIORATED PROPERTY. Any vacant structure or vacant or
unimproved lot or parcel of ground in a predominantly built-up neighborhood:
      (1)   Which because of physical condition or use is regarded as a public
nuisance at common law or has been declared a public nuisance in accordance
with the housing, building, plumbing, fire, nuisance, or related codes;
      (2)   Which because of physical condition, use, or occupancy is
considered an attractive nuisance to children, including but not limited to
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or
structures;
      (3)   Which, because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin-
infested, or lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the housing or
nuisance code of the local government in which it is located, has been
designated by the department responsible for enforcement of the housing or
nuisance code as unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Which is a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (5)   From which the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage, or other
facilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
      (6)   Which by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a
place for accumulation of trash and debris, or a haven for rodents or other
vermin;
      (7)   Which has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years;
or
      (8)   Which has not been brought into compliance with the housing,
building, plumbing, electrical, fire, or nuisance code of the local government
within which it is located within the time constraints placed upon the owner by
the appropriate code enforcement agency;
   CITY. Shall mean the City of Franklin, Kentucky.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. Shall mean the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement
Board.
   COMMISSION. Shall mean the Board of Commissioners of the City of Franklin,
Kentucky.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, business, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE or PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT
ORDINANCE. An ordinance or ordinances adopted by the city pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839 or a similar ordinance or ordinances adopted by the city
pursuant to any other authority.
   REDEVELOPMENT or REDEVELOPED. The planning or re-planning, design or
redesign, acquisition, clearance, development, and disposal or any combination
of these, of a property in the preparation of such property for residential,
commercial, public, or related uses, as may be appropriate or necessary.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 159.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Disposition for the elimination of blight or other lawful purposes.
The city can only dispose of real property as permitted by law. By and through
this chapter, real property will be disposed of by the city under the authority
of KRS 82.083 which authorizes the sale or disposal of real property, with or
without compensation, for economic development purposes, which shall include
but not be limited to real property transfers for the elimination of blight.
   (B)   Determination of availability of real property. The Community
Development Director or City Manager shall review the list of real property
owned by the city, no less than two times per fiscal year, to determine if the
city owns or has acquired real property which can be transferred to another
person pursuant to this chapter. If he/she has determined that the city owns
property that can be transferred pursuant to this chapter, the Community
Development Director or City Manager shall prepare a list of said properties to
present to the Commission for a review and determination of whether or not the
Commission desires to declare the property as surplus and proceed with the
disposition of the property.
   (C)   Board of Commissioners' actions required. Before selling or otherwise
disposing of any city-owned real property, the Commission shall adopt a
resolution in accordance with KRS 82.083 declaring the property to be surplus
property and setting forth and fully describing:
      (1)   The real property to be transferred;
      (2)   Its intended use at the time of acquisition;
      (3)   The reasons why it is in the public interest to dispose of it; and
      (4)   The method of disposition to be used.
   (D)   (1)   Advertising the availability of lots. After the Commission
adopts the enabling resolution, the Community Development Director or the City
Manager shall cause a notice to be published in accordance with KRS 424.130(1)
(b) and displayed on the city's website which shall set forth, at a minimum,
the following:
         (a)   The addresses and/or descriptions of the lots which are to be
conveyed;
         (b)   That the city is requesting proposals/bids for the lots to be
conveyed;
         (c)   The contact information of the person with proposal document
forms and information packets;
         (d)   The location to obtain the information and forms on the city's
website; and
         (e)   The location and deadline for accepting proposals.
      (2)   In addition, a sign shall be placed on the property to be conveyed
which designates the property as surplus property and sets forth the name and
phone number of the person to contact for information regarding acquiring the
property and the website address where information regarding acquiring the
property can be obtained.
   (E)   (1)   Requests for proposals. Proposals shall be submitted on forms
supplied by the city. The form(s) shall contain a statement that states as
follows:
         "The City reserves the right to reject any or all proposals received,
and to select that proposal which it determines to be in its best interest. The
award will be made to the responsible Person whose proposal is determined to be
the most advantageous to the City, taking into consideration the evaluation
factors set forth in Ordinance 2016-010. The City of Franklin, Kentucky is not
responsible for the premature opening of, or the failure to open, a sealed bid
not properly addressed or identified."
      (2)   All proposals shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of the person(s) submitting the
proposal;
         (b)   The property address/description for which the person is
interested;
         (c)   The intended use of the property;
         (d)   The offer/proposal including, but not limited to the amount of
money, if any, which the person is offering for the property;
         (e)   Detailed redevelopment plans for the use of the property
including, but not limited to drawings and floor plans to the extent available;
         (f)   Estimated timeline to complete the proposal;
         (g)   A complete list of all property owned by the person(s) within
the city;
         (h)   Proof of funding availability from a financial institution
sufficient to complete the plans proposed that can be independently confirmed
by the Community Development Director, the City Manager, or his or her
designee; and
         (i)   Any and all other information as is required by the Community
Development Director, City Manager or Code Enforcement Board, at his/her/their
discretion.
      (3)   All proposals submitted shall be signed and notarized by the person
(s) submitting the proposal, and said person(s) shall swear that all contents
of the proposal are true and correct, and the proposal shall remain valid for
not less than 90 days.
   (F)   Evaluation of proposals. Upon receipt of proposals prior to the
deadline, the following shall occur:
      (1)   Within ten working days following the deadline for receiving
proposals, the Community Development Director, the City Manager, or his or her
designee shall conduct an initial evaluation in which he/she shall compile,
assemble, verify, and evaluate the proposals to determine if each proposal
complies with the requirements of division (E) hereinabove. If a proposal is
missing documentation or information, the person(s) submitting the
documentation shall be given five days to provide the additional required
information. If the person(s) fail to timely provide the additional
information, his/her/their proposal shall be denied and/or deemed withdrawn. In
addition, if any proposal contains information that is factually inaccurate or
untrue, said proposal shall be denied and/or deemed withdrawn. All proposals
that contain information that is verified and meets or exceeds the minimum
requirements set forth herein, shall be referred to the Code Enforcement Board
for review and evaluation.
      (2)   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall review and
evaluate all proposals based upon specific scoring criteria at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following the referral of the proposals or, if
determined by the Code Enforcement Board, at a special meeting called for this
purpose. The "Scoring Criteria for City-Owned Property" form is attached to
Ordinance 2016-010 as “Exhibit 1" and incorporated herein by reference as if
set forth in full. Provided, however, priority is to be given for proposals
containing owner-occupied structures. Further, priority is given for proposals
with intended uses which serve the highest and best use of the property in the
opinion of the Code Enforcement Board. The Code Enforcement Board shall use
these guidelines and criteria to make a recommendation to the Commission as to
the proposal which makes the highest and best use of the property sought to be
conveyed. In addition, the Board shall make an alternate recommendation to the
Commission in the event the initially recommended proposal fails for any
reason. The recommendation of the Code Enforcement Board may contain terms and
conditions in addition to the terms of the proposal including, but not limited
to the right of reversion of title to the property to the city in the event of
non-compliance with the contract or ordinance. The Code Enforcement Board also
has the right to reject any or all proposals and not make a recommendation to
the Commission. The Code Enforcement Board, Community Development Director and/
or City Manager shall be absolved of any and all liability for recommendations
made and/or actions taken by and through this chapter.
   (G)   Further Commission action. If the Commission approves the
recommendation of the Code Enforcement Board, the Commission shall adopt a
resolution setting forth the following:
      (1)   The description of the real property to be transferred;
      (2)   That the Commission accepts the bid/proposal from the person(s) to
whom the property will be transferred;
      (3)   Authorizing the City Attorney to prepare a contract, deed and any
other documents necessary for the transfer of the real property that are
consistent with the terms of the proposal, the recommendation of the Code
Enforcement Board and any other conditions, covenants or restrictions required
by the Commission; and
      (4)   Authorizing the Mayor to sign any and all documents necessary to
effectuate the transaction including, but not limited to the contract, deed and
other closing documents.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 159.04 POST DISPOSITION/CONTRACT ACTIVITIES AND SALE PROCEDURES AND AUTHORITY
TO PROMULGATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Post disposition/contract activities.
      (1)   Following the execution of the contract, the Community Development
Director, City Manager, or his or her designee shall monitor the progress of
the redevelopment activities on the real property to be conveyed to assure
compliance with the contract. If the person(s) seeking to acquire title to the
real property fail to comply with the terms of the contract, a written notice
shall be sent to said person(s) by the Community Development Director, City
Manager, or his or her designee, setting forth the reason(s) why the person(s)
are in breach of the contract, and requiring the person to appear before the
Code Enforcement Board for a hearing regarding the breach. The Code Enforcement
Board shall issue a recommendation to the Commission as to whether to allow the
person(s) to continue to comply with the proposal or refer the matter to the
City Attorney to take legal actions consistent with the contract. The
Commission shall take actions consistent with the recommendation unless they
find that the decision is clearly erroneous.
      (2)   If the person(s) seeking to acquire title to the real property
comply with the terms of the contract, the real property shall be transferred
in accordance with the terms of the contract.
   (B)   Sale procedures.
      (1)   Sales/transfers of parcels of real property shall be handled
through independent escrow, if possible, and all costs including, but not
limited to costs of appraisals, examination of title, title insurance, and
closing costs, exclusive of costs to prepare the sales/transfer contract, deed
preparation and deed transfer tax (if any), shall be borne by the purchaser/
person(s) proposing to acquire the real property, unless otherwise agreed by
the city.
      (2)   All conveyances executed by the city shall be made by quitclaim
deed, unless otherwise agreed by the city.
   (C)   Authority to promulgate regulations. The Commission hereby
specifically authorizes the Code Enforcement Board to adopt further rules and
regulations regarding the submission of proposals, contractual obligations of
transferees/grantees, and all other matters consistent with this chapter,
subject to approval by the Commission.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 159.05 ACTIONS TO COMPLY WITH THE FAIR HOUSING ACT.
   The Fair Housing Act prohibits "any preference, limitation, or
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status, or national origin, or intention to make such preference, limitation or
discrimination" in connection with any aspect of a residential real estate
transaction. The city encourages and supports the equal housing practices of
the Fair Housing Act in the conduct of its business, and the city encourages
compliance with both the Federal Housing Act, as well as any applicable state
and local regulations. All persons are hereby informed that all properties are
available on an equal opportunity basis.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 160: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
160.01   Title of chapter
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Creation and membership
   
160.04   Enforcement powers
   
160.05   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath; and
compensation
   
160.06   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
160.07   Conflict of interest
   
160.08   Powers of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board
   
160.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
160.10   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
160.11   Presentation of cases
   
160.12   Appeals; final judgement
   
160.13   Ordinance fine schedule
   
160.14   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
160.15   Lienholder notification system
   
160.16   Liens
   
160.17   Immediate action
   
160.18   Transfer of ownership
   
160.19   Property maintenance code
   
160.20   Declaration of nuisances; exceptions
   
160.21   Repeat offender status/program
   
160.22   Abandoned urban property
   
160.23   Jurisdiction
   
160.24   Validity of existing liens previously filed
§ 160.01 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Property Maintenance
Code Enforcement Chapter."
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED. Property or any improvements thereon that is unoccupied, not in
use, neglected, and/or not serviced by public utilities.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. The city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   APPLIANCES. Any unit, or part thereof, of household appliances, machinery,
furniture, or equipment, whether functional or ornamental, and whether
mechanical or powered by some source of energy or not, including, but not
limited to, stoves, refrigerators, television sets, beds, lamps, tools, mowers,
garden tractors, building materials, objects of art, and the like.
   CLUTTER. An accumulation of certain items including, but not limited to,
lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic products,
supplies, garbage, refuse, rubbish, junk, lawn or outdoor waste, lawn mowers,
or the like that are stored or amassed in a disorderly fashion in the opinion
of the code enforcement officer.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer(s), Community
Development Director, or other public law enforcement officer that has specific
authority to issue a citation for violations of this chapter or other city or
county ordinances.
   DEMOLITION. The act of demolishing or razing of a building, structure or
part thereof to the ground level.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
160.10;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
160.09; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
160.10.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   IN THE OPEN. Is upon land that may be viewed from a public street or an
adjoining property.
   JUNKED APPLIANCES. Any unit, or part thereof, of machinery, furniture, or
equipment, whether functional or ornamental, and whether mechanical or powered
by some source of energy or not, including, but not limited to, stoves,
refrigerators, television sets, beds, lamps, tools, objects of art, and the
like, the condition of which upon inspection, is found to be in one or more of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative;
      (5)   Abandoned; or
      (6)   Discarded.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle, device or other contrivance, or parts
thereof, propelled by human or mechanical power that if operational, would be
used for transportation of persons or property on public streets and highways,
which upon inspection, is found to be in one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative;
      (5)   Abandoned; or
      (6)   Discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any contrivance, or parts thereof, propelled by power and
used for transportation of persons or property on public streets and highways.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, business, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land or real property, including any
structures upon it.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The physical condition or occupancy of any property regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
      (2)   Any physical condition or occupancy of any property or
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, or swimming pools, shafts, basements, excavations
and unsafe fences or structures;
      (3)   Any property that has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities;
      (4)   Any property that is unsafe for human habitation;
      (5)   Any property that is in imminent danger of becoming a fire or other
hazard, or is manifestly unsafe or unsecure, so as to pose an imminent threat
or danger to life, limb or property;
      (6)   Any property from which the plumbing, electrical, heating or other
facilities required by this code have been removed or from which utilities have
been disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective, or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
      (7)   Any property that is unsanitary, littered with rubbish or garbage
or has uncontrolled weeds growing on it;
      (8)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that is in
a state of dilapidation, disrepair, deterioration or decay, faulty
construction, overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, damaged by fire to the
extent that it is uninhabitable, in danger of collapse or failure or dangerous
to anyone on or near the property; and
      (9)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that has
been abandoned for a minimum continuous period of six months, thereby creating
an attractive nuisance to children and/or which tends to diminish the value of
adjacent properties.
   PUBLIC PLACE or PROPERTY. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys
or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds,
and buildings.
   REMEDY. The action taken to abate any nuisance, in order to bring the
property determined to be in violation, into compliance with the requirements
of this Property Maintenance Code.
   VEHICLE. Any vehicle, device or other contrivance, or parts thereof,
propelled by human or mechanical power in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn, including without limitation
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, motor vehicles,
tractors, boats, motorboats, watercrafts, sailboats, boat and utility trailers,
mobile homes, motorhomes, campers, and off-highway vehicles.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.03 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the city and county pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to KRS 65.8839, the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board which shall
be composed of three regular members and two alternate members, all of whom
shall be residents of the local government unit which appoints said member for
a period of at least one year prior to the creation of the Board or appointment
to the Board, and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the City of Franklin, Kentucky and the
Fiscal Court of Simpson County, Kentucky hereby approve the terms and
conditions of the interlocal cooperation agreement for the establishment of the
Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board in Franklin and Simpson County by and
between the City of Franklin and the County of Simpson, a copy of which is
attached to Ordinance 2016-012, and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   The Mayor of the City of Franklin and the County Judge Executive of
the County of Simpson are hereby authorized and directed to execute any and all
documents or take any further actions necessary to effectuate the intent of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.04 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to
issue remedial orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city
ordinances when a violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil
offence.
   (B)   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall not have the
authority to enforce any ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under
any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense
or a moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.05 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH; AND
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city or county, subject to the
approval of the respective legislative body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board
shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member of the Board shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be appointed by the Fiscal Court of
Simpson County for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One member of the Board shall be appointed by the City Board of
Commissioners for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority of the city and county shall appoint, subject
to the approval of the respective legislative body, one alternate member each
to serve on the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board. The alternate members shall serve
for a term of three years.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to the approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy.
If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   Members of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall, before
entering upon the duties of their office, take the oath of office as prescribed
by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall be
reimbursed for actual expenses and compensated in an amount to be set by the
Board of Commissioners and/or Fiscal Court by motion as amended from time to
time.
   (I)   No member of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall hold
any elected or non-elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or county.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2017-002, passed 1-23-2017)
§ 160.06 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a
Chair from among its members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a
full voting member of the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining
members of the Board shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise
the powers of the Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall
be held on the second Thursday of every other month starting in January (i.e.
January, March, May, July, September, and November) at 3:00 p.m. (local
prevailing time) at City Hall, 117 West Cedar Street, Franklin, Kentucky.
Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or
emergency meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky
Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement
Board shall be public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS
65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
(three members) shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority
of a quorum of the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be
taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Franklin-Simpson Code
Enforcement Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board
shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board who has any direct
or indirect financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall
disclose the nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.08 POWERS OF THE FRANKLIN- SIMPSON CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board may be served
by any code enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair or the Board's Attorney shall
have the authority to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
160.17, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his or her personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a
specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If
the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time
specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the
determination that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as
issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board by delivering
the citation to the Chair via electronic mail (e-mail).
   (F)   After the issuance of the citation:
      (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail-return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.10 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Franklin-Simpson Code
Enforcement Board or its administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Franklin-
Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time and
place of the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail;
certified mail-return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   After the person has requested a hearing pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail-return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the
evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that
no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered.
If it is determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued
upholding the citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum
authorized by ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing
violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (F)   Following a hearing of the Code Enforcement Board:
      (1)   Every final order shall be reduced to writing, which shall include
the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order was issued. A copy
shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail-return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board shall be
presented by an attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for
the city, or by a member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney
may either be counsel to the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board or may
present cases before the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board, but shall in
no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement
Board following a hearing conducted pursuant to §
160.10 may be made to the Simpson District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Franklin-Simpson Code
Enforcement Board is filed within the time period set in division (A) of this
section, the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed
final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.13 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Franklin-Simpson Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this section
shall apply. A second offense is an offense that occurs within five years of a
prior offense for which a citation is issued against the same property owner at
the same property. All others are those that occur within five years of two or
more prior offenses for which a citation is issued against the same property
owner at the same property.
 
Violation             1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Structural Violations $150        $300        $600
Non-Structural        $100        $200        $400
Sign Violations       $ 50        $100        $200
                                            
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Franklin-Simpson
Code Enforcement Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be
imposed at the discretion of the Franklin-Simpson Code Enforcement Board:
 
Violation             1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Structural Violations $300        $600        $1,200
Non-Structural        $200        $400        $800
Sign Violations       $100        $200        $400
                                            
 
   (C)   In addition to all sums set forth in this section for fines, the
person found to have committed the violation and/or owner of the property shall
be liable and/or responsible for all abatement fees and/or fees for remedying
the violation.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)9
§ 160.14 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §
160.02(H), or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation
of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
160.16, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city or county in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city or county may bring
a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as provide
for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city or county shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed
liens, as provided in §
160.14, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city or county to receive electronic notification of
final orders entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City or County Clerk and code enforcement officer
for violations inside the city limits, and the Community Development Director
for violations outside the city limits:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city or
county website to submit the information required by division (B) of this
section. It shall be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and
update the required contact information with the city or county. The city or
county shall inform the registrant of any evidence received that the electronic
mailing address is invalid or not functional so that the registrant may provide
an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per week the city or county shall send electronic mail
notification of all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the
last date of notification to each party registered pursuant to this section.
The notification shall provide an electronic link to the city or county code
enforcement database located on the city website. The database shall include
the following information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with the violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city or county shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city or county shall update its code enforcement database to
reflect the issued final order, and shall post the notification required by
division (D) of this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement
database on the city website.
   (G)   The city or county shall maintain the records created under this
section for ten years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
160.15(B) of this chapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
160.15(D) of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city or county in connection with enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city or county from taking
immediate action if necessary under §
160.17.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
160.14 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city or county failed to comply with the requirements of §
160.15 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city or county shall release the lien
in the County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city or county to comply with §§
160.15 and
160.16, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city or county has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city or county from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.18 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a notice of violation, to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the requirements
list in the notice of violation have been complied with, or until such owner
shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of
any notice of violation issued by the code enforcement officer and shall
furnish to the code enforcement officer a signed and notarized statement from
the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the necessary corrections and repairs required by such notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 160.19 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Provisions of 2015 International Property Maintenance Code Adopted by
Reference Herein.
      (1)   The City of Franklin, Kentucky, hereby adopts, enacts and
incorporates by reference, as if fully set forth herein, in their entirety, the
following sections of the "2015 International Property Maintenance Code" as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., as same may be amended from
time to time hereafter:
         (a)   108 - Unsafe Structures and Equipment;
         (b)   301 - General;
         (c)   302 - Exterior Property Areas;
         (d)   303 - Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs;
         (e)   304 - Exterior Structure;
         (f)   305 - Interior Structure;
         (g)   306 - Component Serviceability;
         (h)   307 - Handrails and Guardrails;
         (i)   308 - Rubbish and Garbage;
         (j)   309 - Pest Elimination;
         (k)   401 - General;
         (l)   402 - Light;
         (m)   403 - Ventilation;
         (n)   404 - Occupancy Limitations;
         (o)   501 - General;
         (p)   502 - Required Facilities;
         (q)   503 - Toilet Rooms;
         (r)   504 - Plumbing Systems and Fixtures;
         (s)   505 - Water System;
         (t)   506 - Sanitary Drainage System;
         (u)   507 - Storm Drainage;
         (v)   601 - General;
         (w)   602 - Heating Facilities;
         (x)   603 - Mechanical Equipment;
         (y)   604 - Electrical Facilities;
         (z)   605 - Electrical Equipment;
         (aa)   606 - Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters;
         (bb)   607 - Duct Systems;
         (cc)   701 - General;
         (dd)   702 - Means of Egress;
         (ee)   703 - Fire-Resistance Ratings;
         (ff)   704 - Fire Protection Systems; and
         (gg)   Appendix A: Boarding Standard.
      (2)   Violations of the provisions therein shall be deemed a nuisance
enforceable by any and all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Revisions/additions to International Property Maintenance Code. The
following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code are hereby
revised:
      (1)   Section 302.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code shall
be amended to read as follows:
         Premises and Exterior Properties shall be maintained by the owner or
agent having charge of a property free from weeds or plant growth in excess of
ten inches in height. Noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined
as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs
provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
Further, this section shall not apply to areas zoned as agricultural that are
properly used and maintained as such. Premises and Exterior Properties shall
also include all rights- of-way and easements, which includes the property line
to the curb/street.
         Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut
and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject
to prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 or as prescribed by the City of
Franklin’s Code of Ordinances. Upon failure to comply with the notice of
violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired
by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation
and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal
shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
      (2)   Section 304.14. Insert: May 1 to October 31;
      (3)   Section 602.3. Insert: September 1 to May 31;
      (4)   Section 602.4. Insert: September 1 to May 31;
      (5)   The term CODE OFFICIAL as used in the International Property
Maintenance Code shall be deemed to be either the Building Inspector, Fire
Marshal, code enforcement officer, Community Development Director, or their
duly authorized representatives, and all shall be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code; and
      (6)   In that there is a need to establish a period of time a vacant
problem structure may remain standing, § 108 of the International Property
Maintenance Code, Unsafe Structures and Equipment, is amended to add the
following:
         (a)   A vacant problem structure is defined as a vacant building or
other structure that poses a nuisance or danger to the public, Police
Department or Fire Department and is usually identified by utility services
disconnected, extensive broken glass, peeling or flaking paint on exterior
walls, loose or rotting material on the roof or the exterior walls or the
structure has been fire damaged and not secured from entry.
         (b)   When a vacant problem structure, not in danger of structural
collapse, has been closed by the property owner and the structure continues to
remain closed by approved methods, it may remain standing in a safe condition
for a period not to exceed six months from the date of the fire or the date of
receipt of the notice of violation/citation from the code official, at which
time an application must have been made for a building permit to repair or for
a demolition permit.
         (c)   Failure of the property owner to keep the structure closed or to
obtain the required permit in the specified time shall constitute permission to
an official, employee, or other authorized agent of the city to enter upon the
property to remedy the situation and to abate the nuisance by demolition and
removal of the dilapidated structure.
      (7)   The referenced standards shown in Chapter 8, Page 21, of the
International Property Maintenance Code are changed as follows:
         (a)   ICC - International Code Council is changed to: KDHBC - Kentucky
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction;
         (b)   International Building Code is changed to: Kentucky Building
Code, Current Edition, and includes, but is not limited to the Kentucky
Residential Code;
         (c)   International Fire Code is changed to: NFPA 1 Fire Prevention
Code, Current Edition, and/or Kentucky Fire Prevention Code, Current Edition;
         (d)   International Fuel Gas Code is changed to: Kentucky Fuel Gas
Code, Current Edition, and/or Kentucky Revised Statutes or Kentucky
Administrative Regulations;
         (e)   International Mechanical Code is changed to: Kentucky Mechanical
Code, Current Edition;
         (f)   International Plumbing Code is changed to: Kentucky Plumbing
Code, Current Edition;
         (g)   ICC Electrical Code is changed to: City of Franklin Electrical
Ordinances, as amended from time to time; and
         (h)   International Zoning Code is changed to: Franklin-Simpson
Planning and Zoning Regulations, as amended from time to time, and/or Kentucky
Revised Statutes relating to zoning.
   (C)   Unsafe structure: imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the
Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer, there is imminent danger of
failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life, or when
any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the
building occupants or those in proximity of any structure because of explosive
fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or
operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Enforcement Officer is
hereby authorized and empowered to order and require occupants to vacate the
premises forthwith. The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: "This Structure Is
Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Enforcement Officer."
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the
purpose of securing the structure, making repairs, removing the hazardous
condition or of demolishing the same.
   (D)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the code enforcement officer, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the code enforcement officer shall order the
necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render
such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein
described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as
the code enforcement officer deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (E)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the code
enforcement officer shall have the authority to temporarily close structures
and close, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks,
streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit
same from being utilized.
   (F)   Emergency repairs. For purposes of this section, the code enforcement
officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (G)   Demolition; general. The code enforcement officer shall order the
owner of any premises upon which is located any structure, which in the
officer's judgment is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove the structure; or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and
remove at the owner's option; or where there has been a cessation of normal
construction of any structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish
and remove such structure. Further, the code enforcement officer shall be
authorized to order the owner to demolish or remove any and all buildings,
walls and other structures including, but not limited to greenhouses,
smokehouses, antennas, retaining walls, mailboxes and fences, which have been
damaged by fire, decay or otherwise and which are in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay so as not to provide shelter, sufficient sewer,
plumbing, electrical or heating facilities or which are unsound or in danger of
collapse or failure and which are a danger to the safety of the public or which
are vacant or abandoned and open or accessible to vagrants or passerby or which
are otherwise built, erected or maintained in violation of any ordinance.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 2023-
025, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 160.20 DECLARATION OF NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Junked motor vehicles. The presence of any junked motor vehicle on
public property or on any private lot, tract or parcel of land or portion
thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the city shall
be deemed a public nuisance, and shall further be considered rubbish or refuse,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such public
nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering inoperable,
abandoning or discarding any motor vehicle or appliance on the real property of
another or to suffer, permit or allow a junked motor vehicle or appliance to be
parked, left or maintained on his or her own real property, provided that this
provision shall not apply with regard to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or appliance in an enclosed building;
      (2)   Any motor vehicle or appliance on the property of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of such
business enterprise; or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle or appliance on property occupied and used for
repair, reconditioning and remodeling of motor vehicles or appliances in
conformance with the zoning code of the city and county.
   (B)   Liability for damages to removed vehicle. Neither the owner or
occupant of the property/vehicle from which any aforesaid junked motor vehicles
shall be removed, their employees, servants or agents, or any department of the
city, or its agents or employees, shall be liable for any loss or damage to the
junked motor vehicle while being removed or as a result of any subsequent sale
or other disposition.
   (C)   Compliance by removal of vehicle. The removal of a junked motor
vehicle from the property within the number of days required in the notice of
violation issued by the code enforcement officer shall be deemed to be
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and no further action shall be
taken against the owner of the junked motor vehicle or appliance or the owner
or occupant of the property.
   (D)   Right of entry. In the enforcement of this chapter, a code enforcement
officer, and his or her duly authorized agents, assistants, employees, or
contractors may enter upon private or public property to examine a junked motor
vehicle or appliance, or obtain information as to the identity of a junked
motor vehicle or appliance and of the owner thereof, and to remove or cause
removal of a junked motor vehicle or appliance declared to be a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Other miscellaneous nuisances. It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant or person having control or management of any real property within the
city to permit a public nuisance to develop thereon. The following conditions
are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish and construction, demolition, landscaping
debris and other waste materials. An accumulation on any property of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes    with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
Further, all exterior property and premises shall be free from any accumulation
of combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including any material
resulting from maintenance, demolition, repair, alteration or construction of
buildings, structures or grounds. Exterior property and premises shall be free
from landscaping debris or natural damage of grounds, including, but not
limited to ashes, stones, glass, concrete, unused piles or bags of rock/mulch/
soil, fallen trees, tree branches, limbs, brush and yard trimmings.
      (2)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
      (3)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation, except flowers, trees, shrubs, or other ornamental vegetation,
which are properly maintained. Noxious weeds shall be prohibited regardless of
height. Unless otherwise provided, "excessive" shall mean growth to a height of
ten inches or more.
      (4)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
property in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (5)   Accumulation of refuse/trash and scattered garbage. No person shall
store or permit the accumulation of refuse/trash, unless such refuse/trash is
kept separately in standard refuse/trash containers or dumpsters which are
covered by solid, tight-fitting lids and which have no uncovered holes, and the
storing or permitting the accumulation of refuse and trash for which removal of
refuse and trash is not provided is prohibited. Further, no person shall allow,
permit or maintain the throwing, placing or scattering of any garbage, rubbish,
trash or other refuse over or upon any premises, or the allowing of any
scattered garbage, rubbish, trash or other refuse to remain on a property. No
refuse/trash shall be stored or accumulated in a manner that allows for blowing
or scattering onto adjacent properties.
      (6)   Solid waste/trash/recyclables container. The location of any solid
waste container in the front yard or driveway of any lot or parcel of real
estate in the city at any time other than that period of time that begins at
12:00 noon on the day before the day that solid waste/recyclables are scheduled
by the waste hauler for collection from that real estate and ends at 12:00 noon
on the following day.
 
      (7)   False alarms. The making, causing to be made, or allowing
(intentionally or by and through an alarm system installed in or on a property
owner's real estate) a false alarm more often than one time per calendar month,
directly or indirectly, to any law enforcement agency, fire department,
emergency medical service (EMS), or any emergency response agency responding to
alarms.
      (8)   Furniture/clutter. Allowing clutter or furniture onto a porch,
patio, balcony, deck, yard, or other exterior areas of a residence, or blowing
onto or for any reason causing clutter to be deposited on public property or
property of another in the city. Provided, however, that furniture designed and
manufactured for outdoor use described as weather resistant and flame retardant
is permitted.
      (9)   Panhandling/soliciting contributions. No person or organization
shall panhandle, beg, solicit funds or accept donations on or over any public
street, road, alley or sidewalk. For purposes of this division (E)(9),
"panhandle, beg, solicit funds or accept donations" shall mean the employment
of the spoken, written or printed word or other acts as are conducted in the
furtherance of the purposes of immediately collecting money or any other item
of value for the use of one's self or others. As used herein, "solicit," and
its forms, includes begging and panhandling.
      (10)   Removal of shrubs and overhanging branches.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for owners of property which abuts city or
county roads, streets, sidewalks, alleys and other public rights-of-way to
allow bushes, weeds, shrubs, overhanging branches or limbs growing on their
property or other objects to encroach upon said public rights-of-way,
including, but not limited to streets and sidewalks, that could cause damage to
streets or sidewalks, or that causes an obstruction to drainage or poses a
danger to life, limb or property of persons using the streets, sidewalks or
rights-of-way. No person shall allow any dead tree adjoining public sidewalks
or rights-of-way.
         (b)   Every owner and/or manager of lands bordering on the public
rights-of-way within the city or county shall clear away and carry away from on
or alongside the roads, streets and alleys, and other public rights-of-way all
bushes, weeds, shrubs and overhanding branches of trees and all other
obstructions, and keep any limbs or branches from hanging down into the public
roadway at a minimum height of 15 feet above said surface.
      (11)   Obstructions and encroachments on streets; playing sports and/or
athletic games on streets; and visual obstruction of streets.
         (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any obstruction across or upon
any street, road, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the city or county
without the consent and written approval of the City Manager. For the purposes
of this section, obstructions shall include, but not be limited to, any house,
fence, wall, building, structure of any kind, or any post, rail, basketball
goal, or other fixed, portable, or temporary object that may in any way
obstruct, either totally or partially, any street, alley, sidewalk or public
right-of-way.
         (b)   This section shall not prohibit canopies and building overhangs,
provided that such canopies and overhangs are attached to a principal building
and are not freestanding or require an independent support structure, and
comply with the zoning ordinances and regulations of the city and county.
Retaining walls may be permitted pursuant to this section if, in the opinion of
the City Manager, code enforcement officer, or Building Inspector, such
retaining wall is necessary to either protect the safety of persons or to
preserve private property rights, provided that the placement or replacement of
any retaining wall or structure is carried out in accordance with the zoning
ordinances and regulations of the city and county. Nothing in this section
shall prevent the reasonable use of the streets, roads, alleys or sidewalks for
the purposes of receiving, shipping or delivering goods or merchandise or other
articles for family use.
         (c)   No person or entity shall engage in play or athletic games on or
abutting public streets, roads, sidewalks, or rights-of-way within the City of
Franklin and County of Simpson in such manner as to impede or obstruct
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
         (d)   No person shall permit any hedge, shrubbery, fence, structure,
object or other visual obstruction on any lot to prohibit proper sight distance
to such an extent it presents a hazard to persons or property using the
sidewalks, streets, rights-of-way, or other public ways adjacent to such
property.
      (12)   Street address numbers. All persons owning property within the
city shall post their street address number on the front of their commercial or
residential building, on the front side of each building, as close to the front
entrance as possible, in numbers clearly visible, and at least three inches in
height. The numbers should be posted in such a fashion as to be clearly visible
from the road or street, and not obstructed by trees, bushes, signs or similar
objects.
      (13)   Posters on utility poles. No person shall nail, tack, paste or
place in any manner whatsoever, bills, posters, or advertisements upon any
telephone or utility pole.
      (14)   Nauseous substances or odors. No person shall permit any manure,
rubbish or filth, animal carcass, decaying animal or vegetable matter,
excessive animal excrement or any foul or nauseous substance, or nauseous or
offensive odor to be emitted or to be discharged out of or flow from the
premises.
      (15)   Standing or stagnant water. All standing or stagnant water in
which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can multiply, or which causes nauseous
or offensive odor.
      (16)   Attractive nuisances. No person shall allow of any physical
condition, use or occupancy of any property or premises to be an attractive
nuisance to children, or for illicit purposes, crime, drugs and/or vagrancy,
including, but not limited to abandoned buildings, vacant lots, wells, shafts,
standing pools of water, sinkholes, basements, excavations, retaining walls,
and unsafe fences. Refrigerators, freezers, ice chests, ice boxes or any
similar airtight box or container at an outdoor location which has a locking
device inoperable from within, shall first unhinge and remove the door or lid
and detach the locking device from the door or lid. Refrigerators, freezers,
ice chests, or ice boxes in use at an outdoor location shall be equipped with
an exterior locking device to prevent unintended access.
      (17)   Graffiti. No person shall allow any graffiti to remain on a
property or premises.
      (18)   Hoarding of materials. No person shall allow the accumulation of
materials, trash, food, newspapers, magazines, old clothes and other items that
create a serious fire or health hazard that can cause disease, contribute to
vermin and/or insect infestations, affect the occupants of the building,
neighbors, public safety personnel and the general public, or contribute to an
unsanitary environment unfit for human habitation.
      (19)   Tires. The outdoor storage of unused, scrap or waste tires in any
amount is deemed a hazard to public health and safety and a fire hazard, and is
prohibited within the city limits, except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes. Further, unused, scrap or waste tires shall not be placed at
the curb or placed with refuse awaiting collection and shall be properly
recycled or disposed of by the owner.
      (20)   Compost piles. All compost shall be contained to compost bins and
all material included in the bin shall originate from the property where it is
located. Compost bins must not exceed 125 cubic feet and must be made of
permanent materials, including but not limited to wood, fiberglass, wire or
metal. Compost bins should be constructed to prevent the harborage of rodents
and insects and to mitigate noxious odors. Compost bins are not allowed in the
front or side yards and must be at least five feet from the property line with
a maximum of three bins per residence.
      (21)   Junk; scrap metal. No person shall allow the storage of motor
vehicle parts, storage tanks, refuse/trash containers not being served by
garbage collection franchisees, junk machinery, machinery parts, abandoned,
discarded or unused appliances, objects neglected and not being used for their
intended purpose, unused containers, objects or equipment in unusable condition
such as stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers and similar equipment, or scrap
metal within the city limits, except on premises authorized by the city for
such purposes.
      (22)   Fences and walls. All fences and walls shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair. Repair of fences and walls shall be made with
materials that are comparable in composition, color, size, shape, design and
quality to those originally used to construct the fence or wall being repaired.
Materials for new fence or wall construction shall be insect and/or weather
resistant or have protective treatment applied. Materials such as pallets,
slabs, reclaimed or repurposed construction refuse, or similar materials are
not an acceptable construction material.
      (23)   Parking in yards. The parking or storage or allowing another to
park or store a motor vehicle in the front, side or rear yard of any property
upon any surface other than an improved parking surface.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section MOTOR VEHICLE is defined as a
licensed means of motorized transportation for the movement of people and goods
along public roadways including, but not limited to cars, trucks, vans, RVs and
motorcycles.
         (b)   Trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and
hauling, may be parked or stored on back or side yards of residential property
without requirement of an improved parking surface, but shall not be parked in
front yards upon any surface other than an improved parking surface.
      (24)   Junk mobile or manufactured homes. No person shall allow one or
more mobile or manufactured home or recreational vehicle as defined in KRS
227.550 that is/are junked, wrecked or inoperable and which are abandoned or
not inhabited.
      (25)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited and shall be
subject to immediate removal by the code enforcement official or his or her
designee, in addition to issuance of a notice of violation or citation:
         (a)   Mobile signs;
         (b)   Abandoned signs;
         (c)   Any sign which emits noise or odor;
         (d)   Signs in a public right-of-way; and
         (e)   1.   Signs located within the sight triangle of any
intersection.
            2.   For purposes of this division (E)(25), "sight triangle" shall
mean the minimum area to provide a clear and unobstructed view of approaching
traffic.
      (26)   Trash burning. No person shall burn any rubbish, brush, wood,
trash, leaves or any other combustible materials anywhere in the city except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. This chapter shall not be construed to
prohibit the following:
         (a)   Wood fires in fireplaces, stoves, heaters, or furnaces safely
designed, constructed and installed for such purposes and complying with all
applicable laws, ordinances and/or regulations and, notwithstanding any other
provisions in this chapter to the contrary;
         (b)   Outdoor wood fires for recreational or for ceremonial purposes;
         (c)   Open burning of natural growth on the site of a new building
construction only where it can be shown that such open burning is necessary and
in the interest of public health. For purposes of this section, "natural
growth" shall mean plant life grown and/or growing on the premises only;
         (d)   Open burning of trees, bushes and/or other plant life in areas
zoned A-1 (Agricultural District) or any other agricultural designation,
provided any fire ignited in accordance with this section shall be at least 200
feet from any residential, commercial or industrial district; and
         (e)   Open burning of natural growth or plant life in a designated
GARDEN AREA. However, in no event shall any natural growth or plant life that
was not grown in the GARDEN AREA be brought in to the GARDEN AREA prior to
igniting the fire. GARDEN AREA shall be defined as an outdoor area which is
tilled on a regular basis for the purpose of maintaining or growing a plant or
vegetable garden.
         (f)   Any fire not prohibited by this chapter shall only be ignited
after permission is obtained from the Fire Chief or his or her designated
representative.
      (27)   Sale and display of merchandise. No person shall sell or offer for
sale any goods, wares, merchandise, meats or other edibles, either cooked or
uncooked, from any temporary or permanent stand, store or retail location upon
any of the streets, sidewalks or other public ways. Further, no person shall
place, set or display on sidewalks, streets or public thoroughfares any
merchandise, wares, fruits or vegetables for the purpose of sale or
advertising. This section shall not prevent the display or sale of such
articles at a city, county or Chamber of Commerce sponsored event.
      (28)   Yard sales.
         (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (E)(28), the
following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning
given herein.
            PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall mean property which is owned, utilized and
maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence, or others
adding his/her/their personal property to said sale, and acquired in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise
which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
            YARD/GARAGE SALE. Shall mean and include all general sales open to
the public conducted from or on any premises in any residential or
nonresidential zone as defined by the planning and zoning ordinance for the
purpose of disposing of personal property including, but not limited to, all
sales entitled GARAGE, LAWN, YARD, ATTIC, PORCH, ROOM, BACKYARD, PATIO, FLEA
MARKET, or RUMMAGE SALE. This definition does not include the operation of such
businesses carried on in a nonresidential zone where the person conducting the
sale does so on a regular day-to-day basis.
         (b)   Property permitted to be sold. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell or offer for sale, under authority granted by this chapter,
property other than personal property.
         (c)   Permit required. No yard/garage sale shall be conducted until
the individuals desiring to conduct such sale obtain a permit from the
Building/Codes Enforcement Department or his or her designee. Members of more
than one residence may join in obtaining a permit for yard/garage sale to be
conducted at the residence of one of them. Permits may be obtained for any
nonresidential location on a case-by-case basis.
         (d)   Permit procedure.
            1.   Application. The applicant or applicants for a yard/garage
sale permit shall file a written application with the Building/Codes
Enforcement Department or his or her designee at least three days in advance of
the proposed sale setting forth the following information:
               i.   Full name and address of applicant or applicants;
               ii.   The location at which the proposed yard/garage sale is to
be held;
               iii.   The date or dates upon which the sale will be held;
               iv.   The date or dates of any other yard/garage sales by the
same applicant or applicants within the current calendar year;
               v.   A statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant as his or her own personal property or complies with the definitions
contained herein, and was neither acquired nor consigned for the purpose of
resale;
               vi.   A statement that the applicant will fully comply with this
and all other applicable ordinances and laws; and
               vii.   For a community, subdivision and/or block sale, there
shall be at least five homeowners participating. Only one permit is required.
There shall be a limit of three per year.
            2.   Permit fee. There shall be no fee for the issuance of such
permit.
            3.   Issuance of permit. Upon the applicant complying with the
terms of this chapter, the Building/Codes Enforcement Department shall issue a
permit.
         (e)   Permit conditions. The permit shall set forth and restrict the
time and location of such yard/garage sale. Not more than three such permits
may be issued to one residential location, residence and/or family household
during any calendar year. If members of more than one residence join in
requesting a permit, then such permit shall be considered as having been issued
for each and all of such residences. No more than three permits may be issued
for any nonresidential location during any calendar year.
         (f)   Hours of operation. Sales shall only be conducted during
daylight hours, and for no more than three consecutive days.
         (g)   Exceptions.
            1.   If a yard/garage sale is not held on the dates for which the
permit is issued or is terminated using the first day of the sale because of
inclement weather conditions, and an affidavit by the permit holder to this
effect is submitted, the Building/Codes Department shall issue another permit
to the applicant for a yard/garage sale to be conducted at the same location
within 30 days from the date when the first sale was to be held.
            2.   A third yard/garage sale shall be permitted in a calendar year
if satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the real property
is first presented to the Building/Codes Enforcement Department.
         (h)   Display of sale property. Personal property offered for sale may
be displayed within the residence, in the garage, carport, and/or in a front,
side or rear yard, but only in such areas. No personal property offered for
sale at a yard/garage sale shall be displayed in any public right-of-way. A
vehicle offered for sale may be displayed on a permanently constructed driveway
within such front or side yard.
         (i)   Display of permit. Any permit in possession of the holder or
holders of such yard/garage sales shall be posted on the premises in a
conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public, or any city official.
         (j)   Advertising. Signs are permitted. Only the following specified
signs may be displayed in relation to a pending yard/garage sale:
            1.   Two signs permitted. Two signs of not more than four feet
shall be permitted to be displayed on the property of the residence or
nonresidential site where the yard/garage sale is being conducted.
            2.   Directional signs. Two signs of not more than two square feet
each are permitted, provided that the premises on which the yard/garage sale is
conducted is not on a major thoroughfare, and permission to erect such signs is
received from the property owners on whose property such signs are to be
placed.
            3.   Time limitations. No sign or other form of advertisement shall
be exhibited for more than two days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
            4.   Removal of signs. Signs must be removed at the close of the
yard/garage sale activities.
         (k)   Persons exempted from chapter. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to or affect the following:
            1.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order of process of a
court of competent jurisdiction;
            2.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as
public officials; and
            3.   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other
business establishment on a regular, day-to day basis, from or at the place of
business wherein such sale would be permitted by zoning regulations of the
city, or under the protection of the nonconforming use section thereof, or any
other sale conducted by a manufacturer, dealer or vendor in which sale would be
conducted from properly zoned premises, and not otherwise prohibited by other
ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 160.21 REPEAT OFFENDER STATUS/PROGRAM.
   (A)   Designation. A person shall be classified as a repeat offender only by
the recommendation of the code enforcement officer and action by the Code
Enforcement Board. The code enforcement officer shall recommend that a person
be classified as a repeat offender with no less than seven days' notice to that
person prior to the next Code Enforcement Board meeting. That person may appear
at the Board meeting to contest the recommendation. The repeat offender
designation shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Code Enforcement
Board and the Code Enforcement Board will establish a period of time a person
will remain in repeat offender status of not less than 12 months nor more than
24 months. Citations used as justifications for deeming a person a repeat
offender cannot be used as justification for future recommendations of repeat
offender status.
   (B)   Enforcement. In addition to all the procedures set forth above,
enforcement action shall be enhanced against designated repeat offenders. No
personal contact or notices of violation shall be required of the code
enforcement officer, and the code enforcement officer may cite designated
repeat offenders immediately upon confirmation of a code violation. The code
enforcement officer may also institute a program of regular inspections
involving properties of repeat offenders without the necessity of complaints.
   (C)   Penalties. If a designated repeat offender is cited for a violation of
the provisions of the City of Franklin's Code of Ordinances relating to code
violations and the citation is not contested, a maximum fine of $1,200 shall
apply as predetermined by the Code Enforcement Board. If the designated repeat
offender contests the citation and a hearing before the Board is required, the
Board may impose a maximum fine of $2,400 at the discretion of the Board. The
Code Enforcement Board may also classify all such civil fines as daily fines
until the violation is remedied.
(Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 160.22 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification
of real property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used herein, an
"Abandoned Urban Property" means any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved
lot or parcel of ground located within the boundaries of the city which has
been vacant or unimproved for a period of at least one year and which:
      (1)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, is unfit for its intended use;
      (2)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for
the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or
other vermin;
      (3)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years; or
      (4)   Is located within a development area established under KRS 65.7049,
KRS 65.7051 and KRS 650.7053.
   (B)   The rate of ad valorem taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties
is $0.75 on each $100 of assessed value.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall determine each year which
properties located within the city are abandoned urban properties, and shall
prepare and furnish a list thereof to the City Clerk, City Finance Officer and
the Simpson County Property Valuation Administrator prior to January 1 of each
year.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E) of this section, a
property classified by the code enforcement officer as abandoned urban property
as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban property for such tax year.
If the owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the property to
productive use so that the property is no longer abandoned urban property, the
owner shall notify the city, by and through its Clerk, which shall, if it finds
the property is no longer abandoned urban property, notify the Simpson County
Property Valuation Administrator to strike the property from the list of
abandoned urban properties as of the succeeding January 1.
   (E)   No later than May 1 of each year, the code enforcement officer shall
mail, by regular first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned urban
property, as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property Valuation
Administrator, a notice that the property has been classified as abandoned
urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that the
property has been incorrectly classified may appeal said classification to the
Code Enforcement Board. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be made no
later than June 1 of that year. The Code Enforcement Board shall afford the
owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the Code Enforcement Board finds that
the property was incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall
cause the property to be removed from the list of properties so classified.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 160.23 JURISDICTION.
   The code enforcement officer and Code Enforcement Board shall have
jurisdiction over and shall enforce this code and all other ordinances
hereafter adopted which specifically provide for the enforcement by the code
enforcement officer(s) or Board, in the manner set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 160.24 VALIDITY OF EXISTING LIENS PREVIOUSLY FILED.
   The adoption of this chapter by the Board of Commissioners shall not
constitute a release, satisfaction or discharge of any lien filed of record in
the office of the Simpson County Clerk which affects the rights, title and
interest of any parcel of real property cited for violation of the Property
Maintenance Code in effect prior to the effective date of this chapter; it
being hereby declared and established that such liens created hereunder shall
remain in full force and effect until adjudicated or released.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 161: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
161.01   Purpose
   
161.02   Goals
   
161.03   Definitions
   
161.04   Historic Preservation Committee (HPC)
   
161.05   Duties and powers of the HPC
   
161.06   Nomination to the National Register of Historic Places
   
161.07   Designation of the Historic District Overlay (HDO) for historic sites,
structures and districts and certain provisions related to the Downtown
Historic District
   
161.08   Amendment or rescission of Historic District Overlay designation
   
161.09   Work within the Historic District Overlay
   
161.10   Appeals
 
   
161.99   Penalty
§ 161.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Historic District Overlay (HDO) is to provide a mechanism
for the preservation of sites, structures, and districts of historical,
archaeological, or architectural significance together with their appurtenances
and environmental settings. The HDO is meant to enhance, not substitute for the
underlying zoning classification. This chapter imposes additional requirements
for the structures in these areas, and imposes additional requirements during
the construction, alteration, reconstruction, moving and demolition of sites
and structures located within the HDO. These requirements are in addition to
those of the existing conventional underlying zoning district, which controls
land use to the extent not in conflict with this chapter. To the extent of a
conflict, this chapter controls.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.02 GOALS.
   The HDO is intended to advance the following goals:
   (A)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving sites, structures, or
districts which reflect elements of the city's cultural, social, economic,
political, architectural, or archaeological history;
   (B)   Stabilize and improve property values of such sites, structures, or
districts;
   (C)   Foster civic beauty and pride in the accomplishments of the past;
   (D)   Strengthen the economy of the city;
   (E)   Preserve and enhance quality of life;
   (F)   Promote the preservation and appreciation of the sites, structures,
and districts for the education and welfare of the residents of the city;
   (G)   Develop an awareness among property owners of the value of preserving,
protecting, and restoring areas of historical, archaeological or architectural
significance; and
   (H)   Enable the city to identify and officially designate sites, structures
and districts of historical, archaeological or architectural importance to the
city in order to make such sites, structures and districts eligible for
specific benefits that may be available from various local, state or federal
programs.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION.  Any construction, replacement, demolition or change to the
exterior, of a building or structure that is visible to the public that may
affect the historic, archeological, or architectural significance of a
designated site or structure.
   APPURTENANCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL SETTINGS. All that space of grounds and
structures thereon, which surrounds a designated site or structure and to which
it relates physically or visually. APPURTENANCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL SETTINGS
shall include, but not be limited to walkways and driveways (paved or unpaved),
trees, landscaping, pastures, crop lands, waterways, open space, setbacks,
parks, public spaces and rocks.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA). A document approving or disapproving a
proposal to make an alteration in the appearance of a property located within a
designated HDO, which must first be obtained from the Historic Preservation
Committee (HPC) before any alteration may be undertaken.
   CULTURAL RESOURCE SURVEY.  A process, which defines a proposed HDO boundary
and identifies all structures as contributing or non-contributing. CONTRIBUTING
are those, which are predominant styles of the area and built during the era
when the bulk of the structures in the HDO were constructed. NON-CONTRIBUTING
are those, which have been severely altered and/or were built at a later date
and do not therefore contribute to the historic architectural fabric of the
area. The survey also includes an overview of the history and development,
detailing the significance of the area history and architecture. It contains
photographs and a brief description of each structure.
   DEMOLITION. Any act that destroys in whole or in part a landmark, building
or structure in a historic district.
   EXTERIOR FEATURES. Includes the architectural style, design, and general
arrangement of the exterior, the nature and texture of building material, and
the type and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and similar
items found on, or related to the features of an historic site or the exterior
features of a historic resource within a historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY WORK PERMIT. A permit approved by the Historic
Preservation Committee and issued by the building inspector authorizing work on
any property located within the HDO.
   LEGAL OWNER. A titled owner of record in the Simpson County Clerk's Office.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any addition to an existing building or structure or the
construction of a new building or structure.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS. Any work, the purpose of which is to
correct deterioration or to prevent deterioration of an historic property. The
work shall restore the property to its appearance prior to deterioration. The
work shall involve the use of the same building materials that are as close as
possible to the original. Work that changes the appearance of the exterior
shall be considered an alteration.
   PRESERVATION PLAN. A set of design guidelines created by the residents and
property owners of an HDO used to determine the appropriateness of alterations
in the decision-making process by the HPC.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The process of reproducing by new construction the exact
form and detail of a vanished structure, or part thereof, as it appeared at a
specific period of time.
   RESTORATION. The process of accurately recovering the form and details of a
property as it appeared at a specific period of time by means of removal of
later work and the replacement of work missing from that point.
   STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION.
      (1)   The Secretary of Interior's standards for rehabilitation as
follows:
         (a)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed
in a new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of
the building and its site and environment.
         (b)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
         (c)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its
time, place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical
development, such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from
other buildings, shall not be undertaken.
         (d)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have
acquired historic significance in their own right shall be retained and
preserved.
         (e)   Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property shall be
preserved.
         (f)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration required replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or
pictorial evidence.
         (g)   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that
cause damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
         (h)   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall
be protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
         (i)   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
         (j)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
      (2)   As stated above in the definition, the treatment REHABILITATION
assumes that at least some repair or alteration of the historic building will
be needed in order to provide for an efficient contemporary use; however, these
repairs and alterations must not damage or destroy materials, features or
finishes that are important in defining the building's historic character. For
example, certain treatments, if improperly applied, may cause or accelerate
physical deterioration of the historic building. This can include using
improper repointing or exterior masonry cleaning techniques, or introducing
insulation that damages historic fabric. In almost all of these situations, use
of these materials and treatments will result in a project that does not meet
the standards. Similarly, exterior additions that duplicate the form, material
and detailing of the structure to the extent that they compromise the historic
character of the structure will fail to meet the standards.
    STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of the ground,
including (but without limiting the generality of the foregoing) barns;
smokestacks; advertising signs; billboards; backstops for tennis courts;
bridges; fences; pergolas; gazebos; radio and television antennae, solar
collectors and microwave antennae, including the supporting towers; roads;
ruins; or remnants (including foundations); swimming pools or walkways.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.04 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE (HPC).
    The HPC membership shall be set by the HPC by and through its by-laws,
which may be amended by the HPC from time-to-time, as needed. The members shall
be appointed by the City of Franklin, Kentucky Board of Commissioners. Of the
six members, one member shall be appointed from the members of the Board of
Commissioners of the City of Franklin, and one member shall be appointed from
the membership of the Board of Directors of Franklin-Simpson Renaissance, Inc.
Initial appointments shall be as follows: two appointments for a one-year term;
two appointments for two-year terms and two appointments for three-year terms.
All subsequent appointments to full terms shall be for three-year terms.
Members may serve an unlimited number of consecutive or non-consecutive terms.
When a vacancy occurs during a term of office, it shall be filled within 60
days, to fill the unexpired portion of the term. At least three members must
possess some expertise in the area of architecture, engineering, land use
planning, archaeology, historic preservation or some related field. No member
of the Board shall vote on any matter that may affect the property, income or
business interest of that member.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 2024-010, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 161.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE HPC.
   The duties and powers of the HPC shall be as follows:
   (A)   Shall elect members each year to serve as chair, vice chair and
secretary. The chair shall preside at meetings and be the spokesperson for the
HPC. In the absence of the chair, the vice chair perform the duties of the
chair. The secretary shall be responsible for the minutes of the HPC.
   (B)   Shall adopt rules for the organization, conduct meetings and hold
regular and special meetings as deemed necessary and appropriate. All meetings
shall comply with KRS 61.800 et seq. (open meetings statute). Written agendas
shall be prepared for all meetings and made available for public inspection. A
simple majority of the HPC shall be required to conduct business.
   (C)   Shall act upon all applications for certificate of appropriateness as
required by this chapter.
   (D)   Shall maintain and update an inventory of historic preservation
properties for the city.
   (E)   Shall review all petitions for designation as an historic site,
structure or district and submit recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Shall review any application for a zoning text or map amendment,
conditional use, variance, site plan or subdivision approval, and any
legislation or other proposals affecting properties which are located within a
designated historic site, structure or district or which have preservation
easements, including preparation and amendment of master plans, and make
recommendations thereon to the appropriate authorities.
   (G)   Shall have the right to accept and use gifts and services, which are
given to the city specifically for use by the HPC for the exercise of its
functions.
   (H)   Shall adopt rehabilitation and new construction design guidelines and
criteria for construction, alteration, reconstruction, repair, moving and
demolition of property in the HDO, which are consistent with the Secretary of
the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation. Guidelines may include design
characteristics intended to meet the needs of particular types of sites,
structures, and districts, and may identify categories of changes that do not
require review by the HPC because they are minimal in nature and do not affect
historic, archeological or architectural significance. These design guidelines
shall be used in the HPC's review of applications for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (I)   May, at the request of an applicant, receive information concerning
the location and configuration of interior features in connection with an
application for a certificate of appropriateness, which information may be used
by the applicant in connection with explaining the applicant's request for the
certificate of appropriateness. The HPC may receive this information for use in
evaluation of the overall application.
   (J)   May institute an action for injunctive relief or require routine
maintenance of a site or structure within the HDO, to require compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or any permit issued hereunder, and to prohibit
a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   May acquire easements in connection with individual sites or
structures, or with sites or structures located in or adjacent to a HDO area.
Such easements may grant to the HPC, the residents of the HDO area, and the
general public the right to ensure that any site or any structure and
surrounding property upon which the easement is applied is protected in
perpetuity from changes which would affect its historic, archeological or
architectural significance.
   (L)   Annual report. The HPC shall report at least annually to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.06 NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES.
   (A)   Initiation of nominations. The Board of Commissioners shall initiate
all nominations within the city for inclusion on the National Register of
Historic Places. The Commission and the HPC shall both submit a recommendation
on each proposed nomination. Within 60 days of the receipt of a nomination from
a private citizen or the initiation of a nomination by the city, both
Commission and HPC shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed nomination.
Regardless of whether they agree or not both recommendations shall be forwarded
to the owner of the property and the Kentucky Heritage Council. If the HPC and
the Commission both recommend that the property not be nominated, the Kentucky
Heritage Council shall inform the property owner, the Kentucky Historic
Preservation Review Board and the State Historic Preservation Officer ("SHPO"),
and the property shall not be nominated unless an appeal is filed with the
SHPO.
   (B)   Review of nominations. If either or both the Commission and the HPC
agree that the property should be nominated for inclusion on the National
Register of Historic Places, the nomination shall receive a preliminary review
by the Kentucky Historic Preservation Review Board, who shall make a
recommendation to the SHPO, who shall then decide whether or not to forward the
nomination to the United States Secretary of the Interior, in whom is vested
final authority to certify the inclusion of the property on the National
Register. The Commission, the HPC or the owner of the property may appeal the
final decision of the SHPO.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.07 DESIGNATION OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY (HDO) FOR HISTORIC SITES,
STRUCTURES AND DISTRICTS AND CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE DOWNTOWN
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may designate boundaries for sites,
structures, or districts of historic, archaeological, or architectural
significance consistent with adopted criteria for such designation.
      (1)   The Downtown Historic District shall be considered the area bounded
as follows:
         (a)   See map attached to Ord. 2021-0323 as Exhibit A and incorporate
by reference as if fully set forth herein. (The map adopted by and through Ord.
2018-005 remains the current map and is readopted by reference herein.)
         (b)   See map attached to Ord. 2021-033 as Exhibit B and incorporated
by reference for Expanded Historic District Area.
      (2)   Historic District Overlay Design Guidelines and/or Standards are
hereby approved and adopted by reference in their entirety and made a part of
the public records of the City of Franklin and a copy of the most current
adopted amendment to said Guidelines and/or Standards shall be placed and kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk where they may be inspected by any
person for any reason during the hours such office is open. These Guidelines
and/or Standards may be amended from time to time, and any amendments shall be
approved by the Board of City Commissioners by resolution.
      (3)   With regard to the structures located in the Downtown Historic
District and regardless of any other ordinance to the contrary including, but
not limited to applicable zoning ordinances, the first floor of a structure
located within the area of the defined Downtown Historic District shall serve
as commercial property only and, further, shall only be used for those
commercial purposes permitted in a B-l zone. No one shall be allowed to occupy
the first floor store front portion of the structure as a residence. A rear
entrance residence may be allowed if that portion of the structure was designed
as residential prior to the passage of this chapter, and if approved in writing
by the HPC.
   (B)    Criteria for designation.  In considering any property for
designation as an historic site/ structure/district, the HPC shall consider the
property as an eligible designation when it meets one or more of the following
criteria listed under either division (B)(1) or (2) below:
      (1)   Historic, archaeological and cultural significance:
         (a)   The property has significant character, interest or value as
part of the development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the city,
state or nation;
         (b)   The property is the site of an historic event;
         (c)   The property is identified with a person or group of persons who
have historical significance or who have influenced society; or
         (d)   The property exemplifies the cultural, economic, social,
political or historic heritage of the city.
      (2)   Architectural and design significance:
         (a)   The property embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type,
period or method of construction or architecture;
         (b)   The property represents the work of a master craftsman,
architect or builder;
         (c)   The property possesses significant artistic value;
         (d)   The property represents a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction;
         (e)   The property represents an established and familiar visual
feature of the neighborhood, community or city due to its singular physical
characteristics, landscape or historical event; or
         (f)   The property is a rare example of a particular period, style,
material or construction technique.
   (C)   Procedure for designation of a HDO.
      (1)   Petitions for designation as a historic site or structure shall be
initiated by the legal owners of the site or structure. Petitions for
designation of an HDO shall be initiated by a majority of the owners of the
properties comprising the proposed district. Petition for designation of an
historic site, structure or HDO may also be made within the downtown commercial
district or central business district by the Board of Commissioners with input
from the public.
      (2)   Petitions for designation shall be filed with, and on forms
provided by the City Manager, which will refer the petition to the HPC.
      (3)   All petitions shall include the following:
         (a)   A detailed cultural resource survey of the HDO;
         (b)   A detailed preservation plan for the HDO.
      (4)   The HPC will refer the petition to other appropriate agencies for
comment. In addition, the planning staff will review the facts and relevant
information concerning a petition and render a report thereon.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the planning staff, the HPC
shall schedule a public hearing on the petition, which must be held within 45
days of the receipt of those recommendations. All hearings shall be held in
accordance with KRS 82.660.
      (6)   Upon finding that a proposed designation meets the intent of this
chapter, and that such designation is in the public interest of the citizens of
the city, the HPC may recommend to the Board of Commissioners the designation
of an historic site/structure/district and, if such a designation is made, the
change in the HDO to be posted on the official city zoning map.
      (7)   After concluding a hearing on a petition, the Board of
Commissioners shall issue their decision. If the decision of the Board of
Commissioners is to make such designation, the City Attorney shall prepare an
ordinance to affect that result and the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall
cause a change in the map upon the adoption of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 2018-017, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 2021-
033, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 161.08 AMENDMENT OR RESCISSION OF HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY DESIGNATION.
   Amendments to or rescission of any HDO or applicable guidelines shall be
conducted in the same manner required for the original designation and or
guidelines.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.09 WORK WITHIN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY.
   (A)   Certificate of appropriateness (COA). A certificate of appropriateness
shall be required prior to the construction, alteration, reconstruction,
repair, moving or demolition of any property in the HDO that would involve
exterior changes, which would affect the historic, archaeological or
architectural significance of such property. The person or entity proposing to
make such change shall file with the HPC an application for permission to
undertake the requested work and receive approval for the requested work from
the HPC. A certificate of appropriateness is valid for one year after is issued
but may be extended by the HPC. All authorized work must commence and required
building permits must be issued within that time. A certificate of
appropriateness is required even when the proposed work does not require a
building permit.
   (B)   Activities which require a certificate of appropriateness include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Repair or replacement of roofs, gutters, siding, masonry, external
doors and windows, trim, lights and other appurtenant fixtures, with different
materials or different design;
      (2)   Removal or relocation of a building, structure or object, or a
portion thereof, including outbuildings;
      (3)   New construction or any enlargement, modification, or alteration of
the exterior of an existing building, structure or object, which requires a
building permit;
      (4)    Removal, replacement, or enclosure of porches;
      (5)   Basic alteration of materials, including installation of siding,
shingles, or masonry facing;
      (6)   Removal or topping of healthy trees which are significant because
of their substantial age or size, relationship to a historic structure or
event, recognition as an important species, or identification as having unusual
or unique character or form, or which have been identified in a survey or
inventory of historic structures;
      (7)   Installation or removal of fencing or fence walls;
      (8)   Installation or removal of shutters;
      (9)   New paving, modification of paving materials or removal of paving;
      (10)   Removal, installation, modification or alteration of exterior
architectural features;
      (11)   Exterior sandblasting, water blasting, other abrasive cleaning or
chemical cleaning; and
      (12)   First-time painting or permanent removal of paint.
   (C)   All applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be
referred to and considered by the HPC, which shall accept or reject the
application within 45 days from the date that the completed application was
filed with the HPC unless an extension of this 45-day period is agreed upon
mutually by the applicant and the HPC or unless the application has been
withdrawn. No permit for any such construction or change may be granted until
the HPC has acted thereon. An application, which is identical to the rejected
application, shall not be resubmitted within a period of one year after the
rejection.
   (D)   Activities, which do not require a certificate of appropriateness are
the following:
      (1)   "Routine maintenance" as defined;
      (2)   Tree trimming or ground vegetation control activities in the
vicinity of electric and telephone wires when such work is necessary to the
public safety and maintenance of service reliability and is performed by or for
a utility according to American National Standards Institute A300 standards or
other tree trimming and vegetation control standards set by agreement between
the utility and a state or local governmental agency; or
      (3)   Performance of emergency work on overhead or underground public
utility facilities, so long as the area in which such work is performed is
returned to substantially the same conditions before performance of the work.
   (E)   If after having first attempted to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness, the property owner can show that modification or denial of his
proposal will cause undue hardship, the property owner may apply for a variance
from the Board of Commissioners. The burden of proof is on the property owner
to prove that the failure to approve a certificate of appropriateness will
result in undue hardship or preclude any reasonable use of the property.
   (F)   Stop work order. In the event work is being performed without the
required certificate of appropriateness or not in accordance with the
certificate of appropriateness, the HPC shall direct the building official to
issue a stop work order. All work shall cease on the property and no additional
work shall be undertaken until authorized by the HPC.
   (G)   Emergency conditions. In any case where the building official
determines that there are emergency conditions dangerous to life, health and
property affecting a property in an HDO, he may order the remedying of these
conditions without the approval of the HPC. Whenever possible the building
official shall consult with the chair of the HPC about the action proposed.
   (H)   Criteria for review of a certificate of appropriateness. All
applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be reviewed by the HPC
in accordance with the guidelines and criteria adopted pursuant to this
chapter. Interior features of a structure shall not be considered by the HPC
unless requested by the applicant. In addition, in reviewing applications filed
under the provisions of this chapter, the HPC shall give consideration to:
      (1)   The historic, archaeological or architectural significance of the
site or structure and its relationship to the historic, archaeological
significance of the surrounding area;
      (2)   The relationship of the exterior architectural features of a
structure to the remainder of the structure and to the surrounding area;
      (3)   The general compatibility of exterior design, scale, proportion,
arrangement, texture and materials proposed to be used;
      (4)   Any other factors, including aesthetic and environmental factors
which the HPC deems pertinent; and
      (5)   In cases of an application for work by a public utility company,
the need for the work in order to meet public service commission requirements
or to meet public needs.
   (I)   Conformity with the certificate of appropriateness. All work performed
pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the provisions of
such certificate. It shall be the responsibility of the Building Inspector and
the HPC to inspect from time to time any work being performed to assure
compliance. In the event work is being performed which is not in accordance
with the COA, the HPC shall direct the Building inspector to issue a stop work
order. All work shall cease on the designated property.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.10 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the HPC has the right of
appeal to the Simpson Circuit Court within 30 days of the action of the
Committee.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 161.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to civil penalties of $250 for the first offense and $500 for the second and
subsequent offenses. Each day a violation continues after due public notice has
been served of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on the property of such person or entity
committing the violation for all fines, penalties, charges, and fees imposed
pursuant to this chapter. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over
all other subsequent liens on the property, except state, county, school and
city taxes.
   (C)   Civil penalties imposed for violation of this chapter shall be
enforced by and through the provisions of
Chapter 160 regarding the Code Enforcement Officer and Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-9-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   DEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   LAND USAGE
      
VII.   REZONING
      
VIII.   STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Authorizing an engineering agreement with W.F. Grier
260.1          1-25-1982   and Associates for the development and design of a
                           solid west energy recovery facility for the city
                           Adopting a solid waste disposal agreement with
830.1          7-3-1984    Agtech, Inc., for the construction of a central
                           solid waste disposal facility within the corporate
                           limits of the city
830.1-A        11-27-1984  Amending the solid waste disposal agreement with
                           Agtech, Inc., adopted July 6, 1984
                           Awarding a contract to Cadoux-Dain Bosworth to
830.2-12-85    12-6-1985   finance and construct a solid waste facility for the
                           city
                           Amends agreement; joint city-county planning unit;
900.13-1-86    1-22-1986   joint City-County Planning Commission and Boards of
                           Adjustment
AF-86          7-28-1986   Pooled lease program; interlocal cooperation
                           agreement
AF-87          3-4-1987    Interlocal cooperation agreement under which the
                           program will be organized, and revenue bonds
                           Joint and cooperative program for self insurance,
AG-5-87        5-11-1987   insurance and the investment of public funds among
                           various cities, urban- county governments and other
                           public agencies within the commonwealth
                           Amends agreement establishing a joint city-county
900.40-5-91    5-6-1991    planning unit, a joint City- County Planning
                           Commission and Boards of Adjustment
                           Authorizing a loan agreement with Franklin Bank &
630.1-1-92     1-28-1992   Trust Company and Simpson County Bank providing for
                           interim financing for a portion of the lake project
152.0-2001     11-29-2001  Approves contract with the Industrial Board and
                           authorizes Mayor to sign
152.1-2001     12-19-2001  Approves a contract with the Industrial Board and
                           authorizes Mayor to sign
152.2-2003     12-8-2003   Approves a contract with the Industrial Board and
                           authorizes Mayor to sign
900.5-2004     1-26-2004   Approves an interlocal agreement regarding planning
                           and zoning, and authorizes Mayor to sign
                           Approves an interlocal agreement for fire protection
IA.014-6-2012  6-21-2007   in the city and the county, and authorizes Mayor to
                           sign
                           Approves an interlocal agreement for funding of
830.7-3-2010   3-8-2010    economic and/or industrial development, and
                           authorizes Mayor to sign
IA.010-01-2012 2-13-2012   Approves interlocal cooperation agreement, approves
                           agreement for reimbursement of certain costs
                           Approves interlocal cooperation agreement; financing
IA.011-06-2012 6-11-2012   and refinancing of public projects for use for
                           Franklin- Simpson Industrial Authority
IA.014-6-2012  6-21-2012   Approving interlocal agreement for fire protection
                           and related emergency services with the county
                           Authorizing the grant of an inducement for the
                           acquisition and construction of a project pursuant
2015-016       10-26-2015  to the Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS
                           154-010 to 154.32-100), whereby the city agrees to
                           forego the collection of 1% city occupational
                           license fee on wages from RKW Danafilms, Inc.
                           Approves an interlocal agreement for sharing the
                           contribution and/or equalization of occupational
2016-015       12-12-2016  fees used for inducements for the acquisition and
                           construction of industrial projects pursuant to the
                           Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010
                           to 154.32-100)
                           Authorizing the grant of an inducement for the
                           acquisition and construction of a project pursuant
                           to the Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS
2017-001       2-13-2017   154.32-010 to 154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to
                           forego the collection of 1% city occupational
                           license fee on wages form Industrial Automation of
                           Kentucky, LLC dba Industrial Automation, LLC
                           Approving an interlocal agreement for collection and
2017-021       1-8-2018    distribution of revenues generated from an
                           industrial project known as the Fritz-Winter Project
                           Authorizing the grant of an inducement for the
                           acquisition and construction of a project pursuant
                           to the Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS
2018-019       12-10-2018  154.32-010 to 154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to
                           forego the collection of 1% city occupational
                           license fee on wages from Holley Performance
                           Products, Inc.
                           Authorizing the grant of an inducement for the
                           acquisition and construction of a project pursuant
2018-025       12-10-2018  to the Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS
                           154.32-010 to 154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to
                           forego the collection of 1% city occupational
                           license fee on wages from TMM (USA), Inc.
                           Authorizing the grant of an inducement for the
                           acquisition and construction of a project pursuant
                           to the Kentucky Business Investment Program (KRS
2018-026       12-10-2018  154.32-010 to 154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to
                           forego the collection of 1% city occupational
                           license fee on wages from Toyo Automotive Parts
                           (USA), Inc.
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of project pursuant to the Kentucky
2019-004       3-11-2019   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of 1% city occupational license fee on
                           wages from New Mather Metals, Inc,
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of project pursuant to the Kentucky
2019-005       3-11-2019   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of 1% city occupational license fee on
                           wages from Sumitomo Electrical Wiring Systems, Inc.
                           Approving an interlocal agreement regarding planning
2019-008       3-11-2019   and zoning by and between Planning and Zoning
                           Commission, County of Simpson and the city and
                           authorizing Mayor to sign.
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of project pursuant to the Kentucky
2019-014       6-24-2019   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of 1% city occupational license fee on
                           wages from Holley Performance Projects, Inc.
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of project pursuant to the Kentucky
2019-025       11-25-2019  Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of 1% city occupational license fee on
                           wages from Stark Truss Company, Inc.
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of project pursuant to the Kentucky
2019-029       11-25-2019  Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of 1% city occupational license fee on
                           wages from Gehret Gage, LLC
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of a project pursuant to the Kentucky
2020-004       4-27-2020   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of the 1% city occupational license fee
                           on wages from Worldwide Technologies, LLC
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of a project pursuant to the Kentucky
2020-013       9-28-2020   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of the 1% city occupational license fee
                           on wages from Virtus Precision Tube, LLC
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of a project pursuant to the Kentucky
2020-014       9-28-2020   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of the 1% city occupational license fee
                           on wages from Tractor Supply Company
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of a project pursuant to the Kentucky
2021-005       2-22-2021   Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
                           154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of the 1% city occupational license fee
                           on wages from RKW North America, Inc.
                           Approving an interlocal agreement with Simpson and
2021-009       5-24-2021   Logan Counties and the City of Russellville crating
                           South Central Kentucky Drug Task Force
                           Approving an interlocal agreement with Simpson
2021-010       5-11-2021   County for reimbursement of cost of deputy jailer
                           for work release program
                           Authorizing grant of inducement for acquisition and
                           construction of a project pursuant to the Kentucky
                           Business Investment Program (KRS 154.32-010 to
2021-014       7-26-2021   154.32-100) whereby the city agrees to forego the
                           collection of the 1% city occupational license fee
                           on wages from TMC-NA Taeyang Metal North America,
                           LLC
                           Approving a water purchase contract with the Simpson
2022-005       2-28-2022   County Water District and authorizing the Mayor to
                           sign
                           Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement for
2022-010       3-28-2022   the placement, operation, and maintenance of a radio
                           communication system and tower for the City of
                           Franklin and Simpson County, Kentucky
                           Approving an agreement between the City of Franklin,
2022-011       - -         Kentucky and Kentucky Downs, LLC; authorizing the
                           Mayor to sign the agreement; and declaring an
                           emergency to exist
                           Approving an amended memorandum of understanding and
2023-002       1-9-2023    interlocal cooperation agreement for providing and
                           funding school resource officers for each school in
                           the Franklin- Simpson school system
                           Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a
                           project; providing for the payment and security of
2023-006       1-23-2023   the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing
                           the execution of various documents related to the
                           lease
                          
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date   Description
               Passed
-              - -    City limits description
                    (1980 Code, § 110.1)
-              - -    Extends the present eastern corporate city limits, known as Robey
                      subdivision
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at a point to the southern city
-              - -    limits boundary at the southeast corner of Franklin Land Corporation
                      property, and in line with Oscar Perdue
                    (1980 Code, § 110.15)
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the southeast corner in
                      the line of the existing corporate limits of the city being a corner to
-              - -    the Frances Evans tract, and a corner to the Sealed Power Corporation
                      tract, being due west, 1,575.0 feet from a concrete marker, in the
                      original corporate limits
                    (1980 Code, § 110.16)
-              5-7-   Parcel of land east of and contiguous to the existing city limits
               1973
                      Annexes parcel of land situated north of the city, and contiguous to the
110.17         9-16-  present northern corporate limits of the city, and being an area now owned
               1980   by Dayton-Walther Corporation, beginning at a post in the southwest corner
                      in the north right-of- way of Ogles Avenue
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at a post in the southwest corner in
110.17         12-8-  the north right-of-way of Ogles Avenue, opposite centerline station 13/
               1980   91.1, a corner to the Roy Phillips Estate tract, and in the north line of
                      the present corporate limits of the city
                      Annexes a parcel of land north of and contiguous to the existing city
110.18         4-14-  limits, beginning at a post in the northwest corner of the existing
               1982   corporate limits, which is the northwest corner of the Brown Printing
                      Central property
110.19         10-11- Adopts comprehensive plan of annexation
               1982
               10-25- Annexes territory lying generally north of and contiguous to the city, a
110.20         1983   certain tract of land in the county, located approximately two miles north
                      of the city, situated on the east side of the L&N Railroad
110.20         12-27- Annexing certain territory beginning at a post in the east right-of-way
               1983   line of the L&N Railroad a corner to Franklin Country Club
                      Annexes a certain parcel of land located approximately three miles north
110.30-2-89    2-27-  of the city, and more particularly described as beginning at a pin located
               1989   at the intersection of the North R.W. of Qual Ridge Road, and the East
                      R.W. of the U.S. 31W
               8-28-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a pin located at the intersection
110.30-A-8-89  1989   of the north right-of-way of Quail Ridge Road and the east right-of-way of
                      U.S. 31W
               9-9-   Annexes a certain tract of land in the county, just south of the city,
110.40A        1991   situated between U.S. 31W and Brookhaven Road, and further described as
                      beginning at a point in the line at Oscar Perdue
110.50A        9-9-   Annexes territory contiguous to the existing city limits
               1991
110.60A-I-92   1-27-  Annexes territory located beginning at a point where the existing city
               1992   limits intersect the west R/W line at the Seaboard System Railroad
               9-9-   Annexes a certain tract of land in the county, located just south of the
110.40A        1992   city, situated between U.S. 31W and Brookhaven Road, beginning at a point
                      in the line of Oscar Perdue
110.50A        9-9-   Intention to annex
               1995
110.21-3-96    3-25-  States intention of city to annex land
               1996
110.21A-7-96   7-22-  Repeals Ord. 110.21- 3-96
               1996
110.65-5-18-   6-8-   Annexes certain territory of land contiguous to the existing city limits,
1998           1998   beginning at a pin in a northwest corner, which beginning point is S 83
                      degrees min W 282.6 feet from the west right- of-way line of U.S. 31W
                      Annexes to the city certain territory of land contiguous to the existing
110.66-9-14-   9-28-  city limits, lying and being in the county, and beginning at a stake or
1998           1998   black jack tree, former stood about ten feet south of G.W. Milliken line,
                      formerly W.G. Wade
                      Annexes four tracts of land, the first being land lying on the south side
                      of Bluegrass Road; the second being land beginning at an iron pipe, the
110.67-1999    3-8-   northwest corner of Lot No. 32; the third being land beginning at an iron
               1999   pipe, a new corner to Lester Key in a line 25.0 feet south of the
                      centerline of Williamsburg Road, the fourth being land beginning at an
                      iron pipe corner to Southgate Subdivision in the line of Oscar Perdue
110.68-1999    7-12-  Annexes eight pieces of land
               1999
               8-28-  Annexes territory beginning at a point in the northeast corner, the
110.69A-2000   2000   intersection of the southeast right-of- way line of the Springfield Road
                      (Highway 383) and the southwest right- of-way line of the Bluegrass Road
                      Annexes three tracts of land; the first beginning at an iron pipe set in
                      the easterly right-of-way of U.S. 31W; the second being a certain strip of
110.69-2000    2-28-  land 30 feet in width, being the westernmost portion of the grantor’s
               2000   property; the third being a certain strip of land 30 feet in width, being
                      the westernmost portion of the grantor’s property as borders the CSX
                      Railroad
110.69-2000A   7-24-  Amends Ord. 110.69- 2000
               2000
110.70-2000    12-11- Annexes three different tracts of land
               2000
110.71-2001    6-26-  Annexes land beginning at the intersection of the westerly right-of-way of
               2001   State Route 1008
                      Annexes land beginning at a set iron pipe corner monument, with a one-inch
110.72-2002    10-14- yellow plastic cap stamped DDS PLS 2062, at the intersection of the
               2002   eastern right-of-way line of U.S. 31W and the southern right-of- way line
                      of Reasonover Drive
               12-8-  Annexes land beginning at an iron pipe found in the southerly right-of-
110.71-2003    2003   way of State Route 100, the northwest corner of the subject owners Dan
                      Harrison and Thelma Harrison
                      Annexes two tracts of land, the first a certain house and lot of land
               1-24-  situated in the county, on the east side of U.S. 31W, north of the city,
110.70-2005    2005   beginning at a stone in the east right-of- way line of U.S. 31W; the
                      second being that section of the street known as Broadway, and all rights-
                      of-way appurtenant thereto from its intersection with U.S. 31W
110.80-2005    4-11-  Annexes six parcels of land
               2005
110.80.4-2005  4-25-  Annexes six parcels of land
               2005
               8-22-  Annexes land beginning at an iron pipe set in the westerly right-of-way of
110.8-.8-2005  2005   U.S. 31W at the northeasterly corner of the Spring Valley Subdivision, as
                      shown in Plat Book 2, Page 87
               12-19- Annexes two tracts of land, the first beginning at a nail in the east
110.80-11-2005 2005   right-of-way of U.S. 31W; the second being the CSX Railroad, and all
                      rights-of-way adjacent thereto
               3-27-  Annexes a certain tract of land in the county, located on the northeast
110.80-3-2006  2006   side of the city, situated on the west side of Drakes Creek, east of
                      Highway 1008 and on the east side of Blackjack Road
                      Annexes two tracts of land, the first lying south of the city on the east
                      side of U.S. 31W and the north side of VFW Road, being the Frances T.
110.80-03-2007 3-12-  Chaney property of record in Deed Book 236, Page 228, the second being all
               2007   of that portion of Highway 31W from the territory described above, west,
                      to the existing city limits, being so much of Highway 31W as is needed to
                      annex all of the road frontage of the above-described tract
                      Annexes a tract of land of which the southernmost approximate 22.01 acres
110.080-1-2006 1-23-  is situated in the county, and zoned R-1, and approximately 18 acres,
               2006   zoned R-2, beginning at an iron pipe found #3290 at a metal post in the
                      northeasterly right- of-way of State Route 1008
               5-31-  States intent to annex a 1028.17-acre annexation parcel, beginning in the
110.80-05-2007 2007   westerly right-of-way of U.S. 31W and the northeasterly corner of Wal-
                      mart, on the northerly side of a gravel lane
110.80-07-2007 7-9-   Annexes two parcels of land
               2007
110.05A-2007   5-14-  Annexes a 43.09-acre tract of land, beginning at an existing eight-inch
               2007   corner post
110.80-08-2007 8-13-  Annexes land beginning in the westerly right-of-way of U.S. 31W and the
               2007   northeasterly corner of Wal-mart, on the northerly side of a gravel lane
110.80-09-2008 9-22-  Annexes two tracts of land
               2008
110.80-10-2008 10-13- Annexes land beginning at an iron pin found #3290 in the easterly right-
               2008   of- way of U.S. 31W a corner to Daniel Barron
110.80-08-2009 8-24-  Annexes a 127.93- acre tract
               2009
110.80-05-2010 5-24-  Annexes parcels of land
               2010
110.70-6-2011  6-27-  Annexes a 3.66-acre tract of land, beginning at an iron pipe found #3148
               2011   in the easterly right-of- way of State Route 1008
110.80-04-2012 4-23-  Annexes a 2.00-acre tract of land, owned by A.H.O.C. Evansville, LLC
               2012
110.80-10-2013 10-14- Annexes approximately 173.80 acres located on the east and west sides of
               2013   U.S. 31-W South
110.80-12-2014 12-8-  Annexes 10.46 acres located on Kenny Perry Drive owned by Summers Hunt
               2014   Farm, LLC, Peterson & Associates, LLC and CSX Railroad
2015-006       3-9-   Annexes 10.46 acres located on Kenny Perry Drive owned by CSX Railroad,
               2015   Petersen & Associates, LLC and Summers Hunt Farm, LLC
                      Annexes approximately 67.85 acres located on U.S. Highway 31-W and
               10-10- Kentucky State Highway 1008 owned by Willard Kepley and wife, Sadie
2016-013       2016   Kepley; Arc Properties, LLC, a Texas Limited Liability Company; Victor L.
                      Huntsman; Dane Heinze and wife, Tara Heinze; and Heinze Family
                      Chiropractic, LLC
2017-016       10-9-  Annexes approximately 46.82 acres located on Kentucky State Highway 1008
               2017   and U.S. Highway 31-W North
2018-020       12-10- Annexes approximately 17.51 acres located at the corner of Witt Road and
               2018   Kentucky State 1008
2018-021       12-10- Annexes approximately 8.28 acres containing a portion of and located on
               2018   Highway 1008
2018-022       12-10- Annexes approximately 8.19 acres located on Highway 1008
               2018
2018-023       12-10- Annexes approximately 1.72 acres located on Highway 31
               2018
2018-024       12-10- Annexes approximately 2.67 acres located on Kentucky 100
               2018
2019-013       6-10-  Adopting comprehensive plan of annexation
               2019
2019-015       7-8-   Annexes approximately 5.39 acres located on Peden Mill Road
               2019
2021-031       11-22- Annexes approximately 27.72 acres located on U.S. 31-W north of the city
               2021
2021-032       11-22- Annexes approximately 99.74 and 6.60 acres located on U.S. 31-W south of
               2021   the city
2021-035       12-16- Annexes approximately 43.86 acres located on the corner of Ky. Hwy. 1088
               2021   and Macedonia Road
2021-036       12-16- Annexes approximately 49 acres located on the south side of Ky. Hwy. 100
               2021   adjacent to Sanders East Industrial Park
2022-023       8-22-  Annexing approximately 30.055 acres located on the south side of Ky. Hwy.
               2022   100 adjacent to the Summers property previously annexed by the city
2022-024       10-10- Annexing approximately 16 acres located on the west side of U.S. Hwy. 31-
               2022   W South
2023-003       1-9-   Annexing approximately 26 acres located on the west side of Blackjack Road
               2023   (Ky. Hwy. 1171) South
2023-013       - -    Annexing certain territory of land contiguous to the existing city limits
                      in accordance with the comprehensive plan of annexation
2023-023       6-26-  Annexing 1.184 acres located in the Henderson Industrial Park
               2023
2023-028   8-28-  Annexing approximately 39.45 acres located near Ky. Hwy. 1008
               2023
2023-037       12-11- Annexing approximately 11.589 acres located on the north side of Ky. Hwy.
               2023   100 (Scottsville Road)
2024-009       4-8-   Annexing approximately 0.77 acres located on the east side of Ky. Hwy. 31-
               2024   W
                     
 
TABLE III: CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
0630.0- 11-27- Authorizing the City Attorney to proceed with an eminent domain
11-89   1989   action to condemn property owned by John Meador and wife, Camilla
               Meador, said land being adjacent to Drakes’ Creek in the county
630.2-  3-22-  Authorizing the Attorney for the city to proceed with an eminent
3-93    1993   domain action to condemn property owned by Weldon Deweese, said
               land being adjacent to Drakes’ Creek in the county
 
TABLE IV: DEVELOPMENT AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
151.1-  9-6-   Creation of development area, including two different tracts of land
2001    2001
151.2-  9-6-   Creation of development area, including two different tracts of land
2001    2001
151.1-  12-8-  Creation of development area, including three different tracts of land
2003    2003
115.10- - -    Authorizes and establishes a development area for infrastructure
09-2008 2008   development, to be known as the “Simpson County Development Area No. 1”
115.3-  1-28-  Authorizes and establishes a development area for economic and
01-2013 2013   infrastructure development to be known as the “Simpson County Development
               Area No. 2”
2021-   6-14-  Establishes a local development area for economic development purposes to
012     2021   be known as the “Franklin Gateway Development Area”
              
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
I-1-80        3- -1980    Authorizes a non- exclusive television franchise
                          Accepts the bid of Franklin-Simpson Cablevision, Inc.
I-2-81        7-13-1981   for rights to a non- exclusive franchise to operate a
                          cable type television signal distribution system
                          within the city
I-3-81        9-15-1981   Grants a non- exclusive franchise to Franklin-Simpson
                          Cablevision, Inc.
I-4-82        8-10-1982   Approves sale of stock of Franklin- Simpson
                          Cablevision, Inc.
I-5-84        8-20-1984   Approves transfer of cable television franchise to
                          Franklin- Simpson Cablevision
                          Grants an exclusive franchise for all residential
830.5-9-88    9-27-1988   commercial and industrial solid waste pick-up and
                          disposal within city limits
                          Approves assignment of franchise for the operation
I-6-88        10-24-1988  and maintenance of a community antenna television
                          system in the city from Midwest Cable, Inc. to Tele-
                          Media Company of Franklin, Ltd.
830.6-9-90    9-24-1990   Approves addendum to the solid waste collection
                          exclusive franchise agreement, dated 9-27-1988
                          Sale of franchise (gas system) to be used for the
F-2-91        4-22-1991   sale, transmission, distribution and transportation
                          of natural gas
I-9-97        9-1-1997    Extends the term of the non-exclusive franchise to
                          Tele- Media
                          Creates franchise, not to exceed seven years; non-
I-12-2000     - -2000     exclusive franchise for a cable television system
                          within the city
830.5-09-2003 9-22-2003   Approves amendment to solid waste collection,
                          exclusive franchise agreement
830.5-11-2003 1-12-2004   Approves amendment to solid waste collection,
                          exclusive franchise agreement
830.7-09-08   9-22-2008   Non-exclusive franchises to collect, transport and
                          dispose of industrial solid waste
F.2-07-2011   7-11-2011   Creates and authorizes sale of gas franchise
F.3-10-2011   10-24-2011  Confirms sale and awards natural gas franchise
2016-001      3-28-2016   Creating a ten year nonexclusive franchise for a
                          cable system
                          Amended and restated Exclusive Commercial and
                          Residential Franchise Agreement between Simpson
2019-017      8-15-2019   County and the city and Scott Waste Services, LLC to
                          collect, transport and dispose of solid waste,
                          wastewater treatment plant waste and oversized goods
2021-016      8-16-2021   Creates and authorizes sale of gas franchise
2021-023      10-11-2021  Confirms sale and awards natural gas franchise
2021-024      10-11-2021  Creates and establishes for bid a ten-year
                          nonexclusive franchise for telecommunications
                          Repeals portion of Ord. 2021-023 awarding gas
2021-030      12-16-2021  franchise to Atmos Energy Corp. and provides for
                          recreation and sale of nonexclusive natural gas
                          franchise
2022-006      2-28-2022   Confirming sale and awarding natural gas franchise
                         
 
TABLE VI: LAND USAGE
 
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
970.0-7-87     7-27-1987   Restrictions to landfill property use
625.10-02-2008 3-6-2008    Property dedicated as Wall Street and removal of lot
                           line
 
TABLE VII: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
                               Rezones parcel of land on the west side of South
900.2              1-24-1983   Railroad Street between Morris Street and Cherry
                               Street from R-2 to I-1
                               Rezones a parcel of land located at corner of
900.3              6-13-1983   Bluegrass Road and Springfield Road from R-2 to
                               B-2
900.4              12-26-1983  Rezones a parcel of land at 802 North Main
                               Street back to Claire Avenue from R-3 to B-2
                               Rezones a parcel of land located at the
900.5              3-12-1984   intersection of Filter Plant Road and Highway
                               100 East from R-2 to B-3
                               Rezones a parcel of land located at 624 Brevard
900.6              3-26-1984   Street to alley and beyond alley to High Street
                               from R-2 to D-1
900.7              5-23-1984   Rezones a parcel of land located north of the
                               city from A-1 to I-2
900.9              10-22-1984  Rezones a parcel of land at the intersection of
                               North and Robey Streets from R-2 to B-2
                               Rezones a parcel of land at the intersection of
900.10             10-22-1984  U.S. 31W and KY 100 Connector Road from B-2 to
                               I-2
                               Rezones a parcel of land located on the west
900.11             2-25-1985   side of U.S. 31W Connector Road, joining Terrace
                               View apartments from R-3 to B-2
900.12-4-85        4-22-1985   Rezones two parcels of land on Dunn Street and
                               North Street from R-2 to I-1
900.16-6-87        6-8-1987    Rezones a parcel of land on Washington Street
                               from B-1 to B- 2
900.17-6-87        6-22-1987   Rezones a parcel of land on Water Street from B-
                               2 to D-1
900.18-9-87        9-28-1987   Rezones a parcel of land located east of Potter
                               and Brumfield, off Highway 100, from R-2 to I-1
                               Rezones a parcel of land located north of
900.19-10-87       10-26-1987  Macedonia Road and Montague extended from R-1 to
                               I-1
900.20-7-88        7-11-1988   Rezones a parcel of land in and adjacent to
                               Quail Ridge Subdivision from R-3 to R-1
900.21-10-88       10-24-1988  Rezones two tracts of land; Tract I from B- 2 to
                               R-3, and Tract II from P-1 to R-3
900.22-12-88       12-12-1988  Rezones Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 17 in
                               Suburban Acres North from B-2 to R- 2
                               Rezones the west portion of Suburban Acres north
900.23-8-89        8-28-1989   (Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 17) from B-2 to
                               R-2 (One- and Two- Family Dwellings)
900.24-3-90        3-26-1990   Rezones a parcel of land from B-2 to B-1
900.25-6-90        6-11-1990   Rezones property from I-2 to B-2
900.26-8-90        8-13-1990   Rezones property from A-1 to R-2
                               Determines that any individual requesting a zone
                               change will receive a benefit from such a
900.27-8-90        8-27-1990   change, and that any individual seeking a zone
                               change for property located in the city shall be
                               liable for the costs of publication of any such
                               zoning changes
900.28-9-90        9-10-1990   Rezones property from B-2 to B-1
900.29-9-90        9-24-1990   Rezones property from R-1 to R-4
900.30-11-90       11-26-1990  Rezones property from A-1 to I-2
900.31-11-91       11-25-1991  Rezones property from R-1 to B-2
900.32-4-94        4-18-1994   Rezones property from R-1 to R-2
900.33-5-94        5-9-1994    Rezones property from R-3 to R-4
900.33-7-94        7-25-1994   Rezones property from R-1 to R-2
900.45-7-97        7-14-1997   Rezones property from R-2 to B-2
900.46-2000        10-9-2000   Zone change from R- 2 to I-2
900.47-03-2001     3-12-2001   Zone change from I-2 to B-2
900.48-2001        4-9-2001    Rezones property from I-2 to B-2
900.49-2001        9-6-2001    Rezones property from B-2 to I-2
900.50-2002        3-11-2002   Zone change from B- 1 to I-1
900.51-2002        6-24-2002   Zone change from A- 1 to B-4
900.52-10-2002     10-28-2002  Rezones property from R-3 to B-2
900.54-10-2003     10-13-2003  Rezones property from I-1 to R-1
900.55-2004        6-18-2004   Rezones property from R-1 to B-2
920.1-2005         5-23-2005   Rezones property from A-1 to B-5
920.1-2-2006       1-27-2006   Rezones property from R-3 to B-2
920.1-2A-2006      2-27-2006   Rezones property from R-1 to B-2
900.60-03-2006     4-10-2006   Rezones property from R-2 to B-2
900.60-05-2006     5-8-2006    Rezones property from R-3 to R-4
920.1-06-2006      6-12-2006   Rezones property from R-1 to B-2
920.1-07-2006      7-10-2006   Rezones property from R-2 to I-2
920.1-08-2006      8-14-2006   Rezones property from A-1 to I-2
920.1-11-2006      11-13-2006  Rezones property from I-2 to B-2
920.1-01-2007      1-22-2007   Rezones property from old R-2 to B-2
900.60-08-2007     9-10-2007   Amends Ord. 900.60- 05-2006, rezoning property
                               from R-3 to R-4
920.1-2008         6-9-2008    Rezones property from I-2 to B-2
920.1-05-2008      6-9-2008    Rezones property from I-2 to B-2
920.1-11-2007      1-14-2008   Rezones property from I-2 to R-2
920.1-10-2008      10-22-2008  Rezones property from A-1 to I-2
                               Rezones 57.91 acres from A-1 to R-1 and 21 acres
920.2-11-2009      11-9-2009   from A-1 to R-2, fronting Pleasant Valley Road
                               and U.S. 31W
                               Rezones Ch. 125, Disabled American Veterans
920.3-11-2009      11-9-2009   property from R-1 to B-2, located at 1080
                               Harding Road
920.1-2-2010       3-8-2010    Rezones property from R-1 to B-4
920.4-07-2010      7-26-2010   Rezones 0.397 acres from I-1 to R-2 at 410 South
                               Railroad Street
920.4-11-2010      12-13-2010  Rezones 2.19 acres from I-1 to B-2 at 803 Claire
                               Avenue
920.4-07-2011      7-25-2011   Rezones 4.62 acres from B-4 to I-1 at 1401
                               Nashville Road
920.4-11-2011      11-14-2011  Rezones three acres from I-1 to B-4 at 822
                               Blackjack Road
                               Rezones 428.5314 acres from B-5 to I-2 located
920.4-03-2012      3-12-2012   east of I-65, north of Highway 100, and west of
                               Eddings Road
920.4-04-2012      4-23-2012   Rezones one acre from R-1 to B-2, located at 324
                               South Main Street
920.4-07-2013      7-22-2013   Rezones .49 acres located on the south side of
                               Hillcrest Drive from R-2 to B- 2
920.4-10-2013      10-28-2013  Rezones .65 acres located on the south side of
                               Hillcrest Drive from R-2 to R- 4
                               Rezones 214 South College Street located on the
920.4-12-2013      12-9-2013   west side of South College Street from R-1 to B-
                               2
                               Rezones 5.457 acres and .265 acres located at
920.4-04-2014      4-28-2014   106, 108, 110, 112, 114 and 116 Creekside Drive
                               from R-2 to R-4
920.4-04-28-2014   4-28-2014   Rezones 1.9 acres located at 513 Portland Avenue
                               from R-2 to I-1
920.4-10-13-2014-A 10-10-2014  Rezones 3.456 acres located on the east side of
                               U.S. Highway 31-W South from A- 1 to B-4
920.4-10-13-2014-B 10-10-2014  Rezones 511 Green Street, 515 Green Street and
                               517 Green Street from I-1 to R-2
                               Rezones 8.0 acres located on the west side of
2015-005           3-9-2015    U.S. Highway 31-W North and Carr Road from A-
                               1 to I-2
2015-007           3-23-2015   Rezones 10.165 acres located on the west side of
                               Bowling Green Road from A- 1 to R-1
2015-012           7-13-2015   Rezones 2.977 acres located at 628 East Cedar
                               Street from R- 1 to B-2
                               Rezones 13.86 acres located at the northwest
2016-009           7-25-2016   corner of Eddings Road and Highway 100 East from
                               B-5 and I-2 to B-4
2016-014           11-14-2016  Rezones 5.87 acres located on North Main Street
                               and Barrett Lane from I-1 and B-2 to I-2
2017-003           2-13-2017   Rezones properties located at 319 South Main
                               Street and 321 South Main Street from R-2 to B-2
                               Rezones properties located at 401, 403, 405,
2017-012           8-28-2017   407, 409, 411 and 312 Cherry Street, as well as
                               508, 600, 602, 604, 606, 608, 610 and 612 Orange
                               Street from I- 1 to R-3
                               Rezones 187 acres located east of I-65, north of
2017-013           9-11-2017   Highway 100, and east of Eddings Road from B-
                               5 and A-1 to I-2
                               Rezones 20.5591 acres located on the north side
2017-020           12-11-2017  of Highway 1008 and the south side of Broadway
                               from I-2 to R1-S
                               Rezones Lots 68 and 69 of the Willows
2018-008           5-14-2018   Subdivision located north and east of Bluegrass
                               Road at the east end of Cypress Drive
                               (undeveloped) from R-2 to B-2
                               Rezones 409 Hudspeth Avenue from I-1 to R-1; the
2019-016           7-22-2019   vacant lot on 403 Brick Street from I-1 to R-
                               2 and the 2.50 acre vacant lot on Morris Street
                               and Hudspeth Avenue from I-1 to R-1S
                               Rezones 2.67 acre tract located on the south
2019-022           9-23-2019   side of East Cedar Street/Ky Highway 73 and the
                               north side of Ky Highway 100 on the east bank of
                               Drakes Creek from AG to B-4
2019-027           12-9-2019   Rezones 95 foot lot on south side of East Cedar
                               Street from R-1 to B-2
                               Rezones approximately 40.1657 acres at the end
2019-028           12-9-2019   of Clairborne Circle at the end of Lexington
                               Place Subdivision from R-1 to R-1S
2020-001           1-27-2020   Rezoning approximately 5.00 acres immediately
                               north of 6007 Bowling Green Road from A-1 to I-2
                               Rezoning approximately 2.81 acres located on the
2020-003           4-13-2020   southwest corner at the end of Trotters Lane
                               from B-5 to I-2
2020-010           9-14-2020   Rezoning 618 East Cedar Street and 620 East
                               Cedar Street from R-1 to B-2
2020-011           9-14-2020   Rezoning 47.7378 acres west of 31-W North from
                               A-1 to R1-S
                               Rezoning 4.00 acres consisting of two tracts
2020-016           10-26-2020  located on Brown Road and Kentucky Highway 1008
                               from B-4 to I-2
                               Rezones approximately 322.34 acres located north
2020-019           1-11-2021   of Highway 100 East, south of Gold City Road,
                               and west of I-65 at exit 6 from B-5 to I-1
2020-020           1-11-2021   Rezones 50.12 acres west of 31-W North from AG
                               to B-4
2021-001           1-25-2021   Rezones approximately 12.14 acres located on
                               Kennedy Lane aka Aspen Drive from R-1 to R-1S
2021-002           2-22-2021   Rezones a corner lot located at 301 South Main
                               Street from R-3 to B-2
2021-003           2-22-2021   Rezones 0.337 acres located at 401 South
                               Railroad Street from I-1 to R-2
2021-004           2-22-2021   Rezones 0.451 acres located at 412 South
                               Railroad Street from I-1 to R-2
2021-006           4-26-2021   Rezones 38.27 acres located at 5629 Nashville
                               Road from B-2 to B-5
2021-007           5-10-2021   Rezones 6.83 acres located on the west side of
                               Broadway Avenue from I-2 to AG
2021-011           6-1-2021    Rezones approximately 7.6 acres located on West
                               Madison Street from multiple zones to R-4
2021-017           8-23-2021   Rezones approximately 4 acres located on 31- W
                               North from AG to B-4
2021-018           8-23-2021   Rezones approximately 10 acres located on 31- W
                               North from AG to B-4
2021-019           8-23-2021   Rezones approximately 13 acres located on 31-
                               W North from AG to R-1S
                               Rezones approximately 14.84 acres from AG to R-
                               3; 4.61 acres from R-2 to R-3; and 2.52 acres
2021-028           11-8-2021   from R-3 to B- 2, located on or near the
                               intersection of West Madison Street and
                               McClendon Road
                               Rezones approximately 34.3 acres located on the
2021-029           11-8-2021   south side of Ky. Hwy. 100 (Scottsville Road)
                               from AG to R1-S
                               Rezones approximately 99.74 acres located at
2021-034           12-16-2021  3405 and 3335 Nashville Road (aka U.S. Hwy. 31-
                               N) from AG to R1-S
                               Rezones approximately 3.89 acres located on the
2022-001           1-24-2022   west side of U.S. Highway 31-W North from I-1 to
                               B-4 and rezones approximately 23.83 acres from
                               I-1 to R-2
                               Rezones approximately 47.87 acres as follows:
                               approximately 8.757 acres from AG to B- 4;
2022-004           2-28-2022   approximately 16.033 acres from AG to R-2; and
                               approximately 23.080 acres from AG to R1-S all
                               located on the south side of Ky. Hwy. 100
                               adjacent to the Sanders East Industrial Park
                               Rezones land located on the east side of Harding
2022-008           3-28-2022   Road and the south side of Macedonia Road as
                               follows: approximately 36.61 acres from AG to
                               R1-S
                               Rezones land located on the north side of North
2022-013           4-11-2022   Street as follows: approximately 14.27 acres
                               from I-1 to R1-S and approximately 72.18 acres
                               from I-2 to R1-S
                               Rezones approximately 8.006 acres of land
2022-014           5-9-2022    located on the north side of North Street from
                               I-1 to R1-S
                               Rezones approximately 7.7 acres located on the
2022-018           7-25-2022   east side of Garvin Lane and north side of Ky.
                               Hwy. 100 from B-5 to B-4
2022-019           8-8-2022    Rezones approximately 20.5 acres located on 31-
                               W North from AG to I-2
2022-022           8-22-2022   Rezones approximately 2.02 acres located on
                               North Main Street from B-2 to B-1
                               Rezones approximately 21 acres located on
2022-025           10-24-2022  Eddings Road known as Tract 18 in the Henderson
                               Industrial Park from I-2 to B-4
                               Rezones approximately 18.519 acres on the
2023-001           1-9-2023    westerly side of Grace Road from I-2 to R1-S and
                               rezones approximately 8.830 acres from I-2 to R-
                               4
                               Rezones approximately 30.932 acres on the
                               westerly side of U.S. 31-W from AG to B-4;
2023-005           1-23-2023   rezones approximately 81.978 acres from AG to
                               R1-S; and rezones two parcels of approximately
                               12.038 and 16.258 acres from AG to R-4
2023-007           2-13-2023   Rezones approximately five acres located on 31-
                               W south from B-5 to B-4
2023-008           2-13-2023   Rezones approximately 37.48 acres located on 31-
                               W South from B-5 and I-2 to B-4
                               Rezones approximately 89.1970 acres located on
2023-009           2-13-2023   U.S. Hwy. 31-W North from AG to R1-S and 11.1149
                               acres from AG to R-4
2023-010           2-13-2023   Rezones approximately 16.003 acres on Hwy. 100
                               from R-2 to R-4
                               Rezones approximately 15.46 acres located in or
2023-014           4-10-2023   around the vicinity of Cherry and Orange Street
                               from I-1, I-2, R-2, and R-3 to R-1S-AH
                               Rezones approximately 26 acres located on the
2023-017           5-8-2023    west side of Blackjack Road (Ky. Hwy. 1171) from
                               I-2 to R-4
2023-019           5-22-2023   Rezones approximately 16.38 acres located on the
                               south side of North Street from R-2 to R-4
                               Rezones approximately 2.7876 acres located on
2023-020           6-12-2023   the east side of West Madison Street (Ky. Hwy.
                               383) from B-3 to R-2
2023-026           7-10-2023   Rezones approximately 3.972 acres located on the
                               west side of 31-W North from AG to R1-S
2023-029           8-28-2023   Rezones approximately 7.5 acres located on the
                               west side of 31-W North from R-1 to B-4
2023-034           10-23-2023  Rezones approximately 27.32 acres located on 31-
                               W South from B-5 to B-4
2023-038           12-11-2023  Rezones approximately 1.611 acres located on
                               Neha Drive from B-5 to B-4
2024-002           1-22-2024   Rezoning three lots located on Cemetery Street
                               and McGoodwin Avenue from R-1 to R-2
2024-007           2-26-2024   Rezones approximately 1.85 acres located on
                               State Street from B-2 to I-1
2024-011           4-22-2024   Rezones approximately 2.4 acres located on the
                               north side of Ky. Hwy. 100 East from B-2 to I-1
                               Rezones approximately 2.580 acres fronting Ky.
2024-013           5-13-2024   Hwy. 100 (Scottsville Road) from AG to B-4 and
                               rezones approximately 9.009 acres from AG to R-4
                              
 
TABLE VIII: STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
-       - -    Closes a portion of Cemetery Street and McGoodwin Avenue that extends from
               Water Street to the L&N Railroad property
             (1980 Code, § 620.5)
-       - -    Closing the portion of Todd Street that extends from Walker Street to Jackson
               Street
             (1980 Code, § 620.6)
-       - -    Closing the portion of State Street that extends from approximately 250 feet
               from U.S. 31W to 650 feet from U.S. 31W
             (1980 Code, § 620.7)
620.8-  12-6-  Closing Aspen Drive between Rainbow Drive and Franklin Livestock
12-85   1985
620.9-  12-6-  Closing the alley between Morris and Breckenridge Streets
12-85   1985
620.10- 5-12-  Closing Mango Court and Tamarind Court located in Highlands Subdivision
5-86    1986
620.11- 9-14-  Closing the alley between the properties of Robert Drake and John Taylor Butts
9-87    1987   and connecting to West Madison Street
620.13- 4-25-  Closing a portion of Orange Street just east of the L&N Railroad
6-88    1988
620.12- 6-13-  Closing the street in Massey Subdivision that intersects with the west side of
6-88    1988   Elm Street
620.14- - -    Closing a portion of South Railroad Street
9-94    1994
620.15- 5-16-  Closing a portion of the alley between Main Street and College Street
5-96    1996
620.16- 8-26-  Amends previous ordinance (Ord. 620.15-5-96) relating to closing a portion of
8-96    1996   an alley between Main Street and College Street
620.15- 2-26-  Closing a portion of the alley between Morgantown Road and an existing alley
02-2001 2001
620.17- 2-10-  Closing a portion of Claire Avenue (Claire Street)
2003    2003
620.15- 4-3-   Closing a portion of Lawrence Street and Lewis Avenue
B-2003  2003
620.15- 5-8-   Closing a portion of two unnamed alleys
5-2006  2006
620.15- 3-6-   Closing portion of Wall Street
02-2008 2008
620.16- 9-27-  Closing portion of Raines Drive
09-2010 2010
620.16- 9-10-  Closing alley between West Kentucky Avenue and West Washington Street known as
09-2012 2012   “Presbyterian Church Alley”
2016-   4-25-  Closing a 0.04 acre tract (alley) adjacent to West Madison Street
004     2016
2017-   5-8-   Closing the public way known as the .574 acre tract of land on the south side
008     2017   of Kentucky Highway 100 approximately 400 feet east of Exit 6 of I-65
2019-   1-28-  Closing 0.072 acre tract located near southwest corner of Seng Subdivision
001     2019   just west of intersection of Hildegard Avenue and Western Drive
2019-   2-11-  Closing 0.24 acre tract on West Madison Street, being 20-foot wide alley
002     2019   betwen Tract I and II conveyed to city
2019-   2-25-  Closing the public way known as the 0.090 acre tract off the northwest side of
003     2019   Edgewood Drive approximately 412 feet north of Akin Avenue at 208 Edgewood
               Drive known as Bart Street
2020-   8-10-  Closing a 0.31 acre tract, more or less, of Barrett Lane fronting the Stark
008     2020   Truss site
2021-   9-27-  Closing 0.05 and 0.04 acre tracts of land being a part of Redwood Street that
022     2021   have not been paved or surfaced, located near Sunset Circle
2023-   9-11-  Closing 0.38 acre tract of First Street, also known as “An Unnamed Street”
032     2023   located between Orange Street and the CSX Railroad
2023-   1-8-   Closing 0.270 acre tract of Grace Court from Lawrence Street to Fin Street
039     2024
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1980 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
2.015                         130.01
Chapter 13B                   111.036,
                              111.054
18A.225(2)                    115.02
39A.020                       137.03 -
                              137.05
39B.030(3)                    34.05
41.240                        34.29
41.240(4)                     34.25
50.9.050                      130.29
61.252                        36.11
61.300                        91.02
61.800 et seq.                161.05
61.810                        36.12
61.815                        36.12
61.870 - 61.884               36.41
Chapter 64                    32.36
65.003                        36.03
65.7049                       35.40,
                              160.22
65.7051                       35.40,
                              160.22
65.7053                       35.40,
                              160.22
                              159.02,
65.8801 - 65.8839             160.02,
                              160.03,
                              160.14
65.8815(5)                    160.06
67.780                        114.059
68.180                        114.060
68.197                        114.060
Chapter 78                    32.40
78.510(21)                    32.02
82.082                        36.03
82.083                        159.03
82.660                        161.07
Chapter 83A                   32.40
83A.010(3)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
                              31.05,
83A.060(7)                    112.02,
                              139.01
83A.065                       10.99
83A.080                       36.04
83A.087                       32.27
83A.090                       10.18
83A.150                       32.26
83A.150(8)                    32.26
83A.150(9)                    114.075
Chapter 86                    32.21
86.180                        32.25
86.190                        32.25
86.200                        32.25
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.510                       56.02
91.200                        114.060
92.060                        32.23
92.160                        32.22
92.281                        114.060
95.740                        32.24
96.340                        50.99
96.550                        31.01
96.740                        31.01
97.020                        31.02
Chapter 99                    34.06,
                              35.42
Chapter 100                   154.01
100.273 to 100.292            156.99
100.277(2)                    156.99
100.991                       156.99
Chapter 103                   34.03
103.200                       34.03
103.200 to 103.285            31.05
131.010(6)                    115.03
132.487                       35.38
134.815                       35.38
Chapter 136                   35.39
Chapter 149                   130.06
151.250                       154.03
154.32-010                    35.04
154.32-010 through 154.32-100 35.04
154.32-010 to 154.32-100      TSO, Table I
154.32-010(1)                 35.04
154.32-010(6)                 35.04
154.32-010(8)                 35.04
154.32-030(1)(f)              35.04
154.50-301 to 154.50-346      31.05
177.041 to 177.047            95.20
177.044(3)                    95.20
186.030                       72.05
186.560                       71.01
186.565                       71.14
186.565(3)                    71.14
Chapter 189                   70.06
189.010                       70.01
189.011                       70.01
189.020                       73.01,
                              70.06
189.030                       73.02
189.040                       73.03
189.050                       73.04,
                              70.06
189.055                       73.06
189.060                       73.05
189.080                       73.07
189.090                       73.08
189.110                       73.09
189.130                       73.10
189.140                       73.11
189.150                       73.12
                              73.03,
189.287                       73.04.
                              73.07
189.290                       71.01
189.300                       71.02
189.330                       71.04
189.340                       71.05
189.340(5)                    73.03
189.350                       71.06
189.370                       71.07
189.393                       70.02
189.570                       70.03
189.700                       70.01
189.820                       70.06
189.910                       70.01
189.910 to 189.950            73.03
189.2225(3)                   70.05
189.2226                      70.05
198B.050                      153.01
198B.060(1)                   152.01
218A.010                      130.01,
                              132.06
Chapter 218B                  132.06
218B.080                      132.06
218B.085                      132.06
218B.090                      132.06
220.135                       50.01
Chapter 224                   73.11
224.20-720                    70.06
224.868                       51.05
                              114.001,
Chapter 227                   114.003,
                              130.07
227.450 et seq.               153.07
227.489                       153.01
227.550                       160.20
227.700                       130.01
Chapter 230                   130.11
237.030                       130.01
Chapter 238                   134.01
238.505                       130.11
Chapters 241 through 244      111.035,
                              111.091
241.100                       111.035
241.160                       111.035
241.170                       111.035
241.200                       111.056
243.030                       111.018
243.070                       111.016,
                              111.024
243.075                       111.024
243.450                       111.056
243.480                       111.999
243.490                       111.056
243.500                       111.056
243.550                       111.054
243.850                       111.057
243.895                       111.087
244.050                       111.116
244.085                       111.105
244.130                       111.160
Chapter 258                   91.05,
                              91.99
260.850                       132.06
304.39-080                    70.06
Chapter 337                   32.40
344.200 through 344.290       93.10,
                              93.11
Chapter 350                   154.02
365.710                       137.45
403.720                       130.01
Chapter 424                   34.03,
                              111.045
424.130                       155.17
424.130(b)                    155.15
424.130(1)(b)                 159.03
424.170                       111.045
431.015                       32.27
436.480                       134.01
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
456.010                       130.01
500.050(2), (4)               130.01
500.080                       130.01
500.090                       130.12,
                              134.02
501.010                       130.01
501.020                       130.01
501.030                       130.01
501.040                       130.01
501.050                       130.01
502.020                       130.01
506.010                       130.01
506.020                       130.01
506.030                       130.01
506.040                       130.01
506.050                       130.01
506.080                       130.01
506.110                       130.01
Chapter 507                   118.09
507.020                       136.03
Chapter 508                   118.09
508.030                       36.02
508.040                       136.03
508.050                       136.04
508.070                       136.05
508.080                       136.06
509.010                       136.01
509.030                       136.07
509.050                       136.07
509.060                       136.07
509.070                       136.08
510.020                       138.02
510.030                       138.02
510.100                       138.03
510.120                       138.04
510.130                       138.05
510.140                       137.06
510.150                       138.07
511.010                       137.01
511.050                       137.42
511.060                       137.03
511.070                       91.02,
                              137.04
511.080                       111.089,
                              137.05
511.090                       137.02
512.010                       137.20
512.030                       137.21
512.050                       137.23
512.060                       137.24
512.070                       137.25
512.080                       137.26
514.010                       137.40
514.020                       137.41
514.030                       137.43
514.040                       137.44
514.050                       137.45
514.060                       137.45
514.070                       137.47
514.080                       137.48
514.090                       137.49
514.100                       137.50
514.110                       137.51
514.120                       137.52
516.010                       130.13
516.020                       130.13
516.020(1)(a)                 130.13
516.020(1)(b)                 130.13
516.030                       130.13
516.030(1)                    130.13
516.030(1)(a)                 130.13
516.030(1)(b)                 130.13
516.030(1)(c)                 130.13
516.040                       130.13
516.070                       130.13
516.080                       130.13
516.110                       130.13
516.130                       130.13
517.010                       131.01
517.020                       131.02
517.030                       131.03
517.040                       131.03
517.050                       131.05
517.060                       131.06
517.070                       131.07
517.080                       131.08
517.090                       131.09
517.110                       131.10
518.010                       131.01
518.020                       131.11
518.030                       131.12
518.060                       131.13
518.070                       131.14
519.010                       130.10
519.020                       130.26
519.030                       130.27
519.040                       130.28
519.060                       130.30
520.010                       130.25
520.040                       130.26
520.060                       130.10
520.080                       130.10
520.100                       130.10
520.110                       130.10
520.120                       130.10
520.130                       130.10
521.010                       130.10
521.030                       130.31
521.040                       130.32
522.020                       130.33
523.030                       130.09,
                              130.34
523.040                       130.09
523.050                       130.09
523.060                       130.09
523.070                       130.09
523.080                       130.09
523.090                       130.09
523.100                       130.09
524.010                       130.09
524.050                       130.09
524.090                       130.09
524.110                       130.09
Chapter 525                   118.09
525.010                       130.11
525.030                       130.11
525.040                       130.11
525.050                       130.11
525.060                       130.11
525.070                       130.11
525.080                       130.11
525.090                       130.11
525.100                       130.11
525.110                       130.11
525.120                       130.02
525.130                       130.03
525.140                       130.11
525.150                       130.11
526.010                       130.12
526.030                       130.12
526.040                       130.12
526.060                       130.12
526.070                       130.12
526.080                       130.12
528.010                       134.01
528.030                       134.03
528.060                       134.04
528.070                       134.05
528.080                       134.06
528.090                       134.02
528.100                       134.02
529.010                       138.20
529.020                       138.22
529.030                       138.23
529.040                       138.23
529.050                       138.23
529.070                       138.24
Chapter 530                   118.09
530.030                       133.01
530.050                       133.02
530.060                       133.03
530.070                       133.04
530.080                       133.05
531.010                       135.01
531.020                       135.03
531.030                       135.04
531.040                       135.05
531.050                       135.06
531.060                       135.07
531.070                       135.02
531.080                       135.02
Chapter 532                   130.01
532.090                       130.99
534.040                       130.99
534.040(2)(c)                 10.99
                              
REFERENCES TO 1980 CODE
1980 Code Section 2017 Code Section
1980 Code Section 2017 Code Section
110.1             TSO, Table II
110.15            TSO, Table II
110.16            TSO, Table II
130.2-1           32.20
130.2-2           32.21
130.2-3           32.22
130.2-4           32.23
130.2-5           32.24
130.1             32.25
150.1-1           31.01
150.1-2           31.02
150.2             31.03
220.3-1           35.35
220.3-2           35.36
220.3-3           35.37
320.1             31.20
520.1             70.01
520.2             70.02
520.3-1           71.01
520.3-2           71.02
520.3-3           71.03
520.3-4           71.04
520.3-5           71.05
520.3-6           71.06
520.3-7           71.07
520.3-9           71.08
520.3-10          71.09
520.3-11          71.10
520.3-12          71.11
520.3-13          71.12
520.3-14          71.13
520.3-15          71.14
520.3-16          71.15
520.3-17          71.16
520.3-18          71.17
520.3-19          71.18
520.3-20          71.19
530.1             70.04
540.1-1           72.01
550.1             70.03
560.1-1           73.01
560.1-2           73.02
560.1-3           73.03
560.1-4           73.04
560.1-5           73.05
560.1-6           73.06
560.1-7           73.07
560.1-8           73.08
560.1-9           73.09
560.1-10          73.10
560.1-11          73.11
560.1-12          73.12
560.1-13          73.13
620.1             Ch. 74, Sch. I
620.3-1           95.20
620.3-2           95.21
620.3-3           95.22
620.3-4           95.23
620.3-5           95.24
620.3-6           95.25
620.3-7           95.26
620.3-8           95.27
620.3-9           95.28
620.3-10          95.29
620.3-11          95.30
620.3-12          95.31
620.3-13          95.32
620.3-14          95.33
620.3-15          95.34
620.3-16          95.35
620.3-17          95.36
620.3-19          95.99
620.5             TSO, Table VIII
620.6             TSO, Table VIII
620.7             TSO, Table VIII
950.2-1           151.01
950.2-2           151.02
950.2-3           151.99
1020.1            130.01
1020.2-1          136.01
1020.2-2          136.02
1020.2-3          136.03
1020.2-4          136.04
1020.2-5          136.05
1020.2-6          136.06
1020.2-7          136.07
1020.2-8          136.08
1020.3-1          137.01
1020.3-2          137.02
1020.3-3          137.03
1020.3-4          137.04
1020.4-1          137.20
1020.4-2          137.21
1020.4-5          137.24
1020.4-6          137.25
1020.4-7          137.26
1020.5-1          137.40
1020.5-2          137.41
1020.5-3          137.42
1020.5-4          137.43
1020.5-5          137.44
1020.5-6          137.45
1020.5-8          137.47
1020.5-9          137.48
1020.5-10         137.49
1020.5-11         137.50
1020.5-12         137.51
1020.5-13         137.52
1020.6            130.13
1020.7-1          131.01
1020.7-2          131.02
1020.7-3          131.03
1020.7-4          131.04
1020.7-5          131.05
1020.7-6          131.06
1020.7-7          131.07
1020.7-8          131.08
1020.7-9          131.09
1020.7-10         131.10
1020.7-11         131.11
1020.7-12         131.12
1020.7-13         131.13
1020.7-14         131.14
1020.8            130.10
1020.9-1          130.25
1020.9-2          130.26
1020.9-4          130.28
1020.9-5          130.29
1020.9-6          130.30
1020.9-7          130.31
1020.9-8          130.32
1020.9-10         130.34
1020.10           130.09
1020.11           130.11
1020.12           130.12
1020.14-1         134.01
1020.14-2         134.02
1020.14-3         134.03
1020.14-4         134.04
1020.14-5         134.05
1020.14-6         134.06
1020.15-1         133.01
1020.15-2         133.02
1020.15-3         133.03
1020.15-4         133.04
1020.15-5         133.05
1020.16-1         138.01
1020.16-2         138.02
1020.16-3         138.03
1020.16-4         138.04
1020.16-5         138.05
1020.16-6         137.06
1020.16-7         138.07
1020.17-1         138.20
1020.17-2         138.21
1020.17-3         138.22
1020.17-4         138.23
1020.17-5         138.24
1020.18-1         135.01
1020.18-2         135.02
1020.18-3         135.03
1020.18-4         135.04
1020.18-5         135.05
1020.18-6         135.06
1020.18-7         135.07
1020.19-1         130.02
1020.19-2         130.03
1020.20-2         130.04,
                  130.99
1020.20-4         130.05,
                  130.99
1020.20-5         130.99
1030.1            10.99
1030.2            70.99
1030.3            130.99
1030.4            35.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code
–      12-27-1993  35.15 -
                     35.23
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
               - -         71.09
               - -         TSO, Table II
               4-1-1963    95.33
               5-7-1973    TSO, Table II
I-1-80           3- -1980    TSO, Table V
440.1            5-12-1980   95.01
110.17           9-16-1980   TSO, Table II
540.2            10-13-1980  Ch. 75, Sch. I
80-1             11-10-1980  34.01
110.17           12-8-1980   TSO, Table II
I-2-81           7-13-1981   TSO, Table V
950.4            7-27-1981   151.15 -
                             151.17
970.1            8-13-1981   150.02
150.1A           9-14-1981   31.01
I-3-81           9-15-1981   TSO, Table V
150.32           10-26-1981  95.02
1020.21          12-16-1981  130.08,
                             130.99
260.1            1-25-1982   TSO, Table I
620.3            3-8-1982    95.99
320.1A           4-12-1982   31.20
110.18           4-14-1982   TSO, Table II
                             155.01 -
950.5            7-1-1982    155.19,
                             155.99
I-4-82           8-10-1982   TSO, Table V
110.19           10-11-1982  TSO, Table II
150.33           11-23-1982  31.04
900.2            1-24-1983   TSO, Table VII
950.4A           4-11-1983   158.01
900.3            6-13-1983   TSO, Table VII
110.20           10-25-1983  TSO, Table II
900.4            12-26-1983  TSO, Table VII
110.20           12-27-1983  TSO, Table II
540.2-7          3-12-1984   72.05
900.5            3-12-1984   TSO, Table VII
900.6            3-26-1984   TSO, Table VII
900.7            5-23-1984   TSO, Table VII
830.1            7-3-1984    TSO, Table I
I-5-84           8-20-1984   TSO, Table V
960.2            9-24-1984   34.02
220.6            9-25-1984   115.01 -
                             115.06
900.9            10-22-1984  TSO, Table VII
900.10           10-22-1984  TSO, Table VII
830.1-A          11-27-1984  TSO, Table I
900.11           2-25-1985   TSO, Table VII
920.0-9-85       9-9-1985    158.01
830.2-12-85      12-6-1985   TSO, Table I
620.8-12-85      12-6-1985   TSO, Table VIII
620.9-12-85      12-6-1985   TSO, Table VIII
900.12-4-85      4-22-1985   TSO, Table VII
900.13-1-86      1-22-1986   TSO, Table I
                             51.01 -
                             51.07,
                             51.20 -
                             51.22,
830.3-1-86       1-27-1986   51.35 -
                             51.37,
                             51.50 -
                             51.54,
                             51.99
620.10-5-86      5-12-1986   TSO, Table VIII
130.5-6-86       6-16-1986   32.01
900.14-7-86      7-22-1986   150.01
AF-86            7-28-1986   TSO, Table I
AG-86            9-22-1986   34.03
                             116.01 -
440.2-12-86      12-8-1986   116.11,
                             116.99
900.15-2-87      2-9-1987    150.01
AF-87            3-4-1987    TSO, Table I
AG-5-87          5-11-1987   TSO, Table I
900.16-6-87      6-8-1987    TSO, Table VII
900.17-6-87      6-22-1987   TSO, Table VII
970.0-7-87       7-27-1987   TSO, Table VI
620.11-9-87      9-14-1987   TSO, Table VIII
900.18-9-87      9-28-1987   TSO, Table VII
900.19-10-87     10-26-1987  TSO, Table VII
620.13-6-88      4-25-1988   TSO, Table VIII
230.3-6-88       6-13-1988   32.02
620.12-6-88      6-13-1988   TSO, Table VIII
900.20-7-88      7-11-1988   TSO, Table VII
950.5-A-7-88     7-25-1988   155.17
900.2-08-10-1998 8-24-1988   150.01
830.5-9-88       9-27-1988   TSO, Table V
I-6-88           10-24-1988  TSO, Table V
900.21-10-88     10-24-1988  TSO, Table VII
900.22-12-88     12-12-1988  TSO, Table VII
110.30-2-89      2-27-1989   TSO, Table II
720.0-7-89       7-24-1989   90.01,
                             90.99
110.30-A-8-89    8-28-1989   TSO, Table II
900.23-8-89      8-28-1989   TSO, Table VII
0630.0-11-89     11-27-1989  TSO, Table III
230.4-1-90       1-22-1990   32.04
900.24-3-90      3-26-1990   TSO, Table VII
                             95.50 -
620.3A-5-90      5-29-1990   95.54,
                             95.99
900.25-6-90      6-11-1990   TSO, Table VII
900.26-8-90      8-13-1990   TSO, Table VII
900.27-8-90      8-27-1990   TSO, Table VII
900.28-9-90      9-10-1990   TSO, Table VII
900.29-9-90      9-24-1990   TSO, Table VII
830.6-9-90       9-24-1990   TSO, Table V
900.30-11-90     11-26-1990  TSO, Table VII
F-2-91           4-22-1991   TSO, Table V
900.40-5-91      5-6-1991    TSO, Table I
110.40A          9-9-1991    TSO, Table II
110.50A          9-9-1991    TSO, Table II
900.31-11-91     11-25-1991  TSO, Table VII
110.60A-I-92     1-27-1992   TSO, Table II
630.1-1-92       1-28-1992   TSO, Table I
                             116.25 -
220.10-4-92      3-23-1992   116.30,
                             116.99
110.40A          9-9-1992    TSO, Table II
630.2-3-93       3-22-1993   TSO, Table III
210.1-11-93      11-22-1993  35.02
210.2-12-93      12-30-1993  35.03
620.14-9-94      - -1994     TSO, Table VIII
I-7-94           2-14-1994   112.01 -
                             112.08
130.2-3-94       3-28-1994   32.26
900.32-4-94      4-18-1994   TSO, Table VII
900.33-5-94      5-9-1994    TSO, Table VII
230.6-6-94       6-28-1994   32.05
900.33-7-94      7-25-1994   TSO, Table VII
820.2-8-94       8-24-1994   50.01
                             150.15 -
                             150.24,
980.2-9-94       8-24-1994   150.26 -
                             150.31,
                             150.99
570.1            9-26-1994   95.03,
                             95.99
830.13-11-94     11-14-1994  51.55
980.3-11-94      11-30-1994  150.19
210.3-12-94      12-29-1994  34.20 -
                             34.32
300.1-6-95       6-12-1995   95.04,
                             95.99
110.50A          9-9-1995    TSO, Table II
                             54.01 -
610.7-2-96       2-26-1996   54.06,
                             54.08,
                             54.09
110.21-3-96      3-25-1996   TSO, Table II
                             155.09,
950.6-4-96       4-8-1996    155.11 -
                             155.19
610.7-5-96       5-16-1996   54.10
620.15-5-96      5-16-1996   TSO, Table VIII
110.21A-7-96     7-22-1996   TSO, Table II
620.16-8-96      8-26-1996   TSO, Table VIII
630.0-1999       9-27-1996   50.02,
                             50.99
230.8-4-97       4-28-1997   33.01
900.45-7-97      7-14-1997   TSO, Table IV
I-9-97           9-1-1997    TSO, Table V
220.11-09-97     9-22-1997   35.38
220.13-9-97      9-22-1997   35.39
110.65-5-18-1998 6-8-1998    TSO, Table II
110.66-9-14-1998 9-28-1998   TSO, Table II
900.10-1998      11-23-1998  158.01
110.67-1999      3-8-1999    TSO, Table II
610.6A-6-99      6-28-1999   54.05
151.0-1999       7-12-1999   31.05
110.68-1999      7-12-1999   TSO, Table II
1030.4A-1999     11-8-1999   35.01
I-12-2000        - -2000     TSO, Table V
110.69-2000      2-28-2000   TSO, Table II
110.69-2000A     7-24-2000   TSO, Table II
110.69A-2000     8-28-2000   TSO, Table II
900.46-2000      10-9-2000   TSO, Table VII
230.7-11-00      11-13-2000  33.01
130.9-2000       11-27-2000  30.01
110.70-2000      12-11-2000  TSO, Table II
610.8-2000       12-11-2000  50.39,
                             50.40
620.15-02-2001   2-26-2001   TSO, Table VIII
900.47-03-2001   3-12-2001   TSO, Table VII
3                4-9-2001    32.03
7                4-9-2001    93.01 -
                             93.13
9                4-9-2001    34.04
11               4-9-2001    32.03
900.48-2001      4-9-2001    TSO, Table VII
110.71-2001      6-26-2001   TSO, Table II
151.1-2001       9-6-2001    TSO, Table IV
151.2-2001       9-6-2001    TSO, Table IV
900.49-2001      9-6-2001    TSO, Table VII
                             50.15 -
610.90-2001      10-22-2001  50.24,
                             50.99
                             52.01 -
615.0-2001       11-19-2001  52.15,
                             52.99
152.0-2001       11-29-2001  TSO, Table I
152.1-2001       12-19-2001  TSO, Table I
900.50-2002      3-11-2002   TSO, Table VII
900.51-2002      6-24-2002   TSO, Table VII
950.5-2002       7-22-2002   152.01
130.10-8-02      9-9-2002    30.02
110.72-2002      10-14-2002  TSO, Table II
                             153.01 -
950.3-9-2002     10-14-2002  153.11,
                             153.99
900.52-10-2002   10-28-2002  TSO, Table VII
230.9-2003       2-10-2003   32.06
620.17-2003      2-10-2003   TSO, Table VIII
220.16           3-24-2003   34.06
                             52.01,
                             52.02,
615.0-2003       3-24-2003   52.05,
                             52.06,
                             52.07
620.15-B-2003    4-3-2003    TSO, Table VIII
150.5-03-2003    4-14-2003   30.03
130.2-4-03       5-12-2003   32.27
830.5-09-2003    9-22-2003   TSO, Table V
900.54-10-2003   10-13-2003  TSO, Table VII
15               11-25-2003  34.05
110.71-2003      12-8-2003   TSO, Table II
152.2-2003       12-8-2003   TSO, Table I
151.1-2003       12-8-2003   TSO, Table IV
830.5-11-2003    1-12-2004   TSO, Table V
900.5-2004       1-26-2004   TSO, Table I
900.55-2004      6-18-2004   TSO, Table VII
                             118.01 -
220.16-10-2004   10-18-2004  118.14,
                             118.99
900.11-10-2004   10-28-2004  158.01
900.56-2004      12-20-2004  158.01
110.70-2005      1-24-2005   TSO, Table II
920.2-11-2005    2-13-2005   158.01
110.80-2005      4-11-2005   TSO, Table II
110.80.4-2005    4-25-2005   TSO, Table II
920.1-2005       5-23-2005   TSO, Table VII
110.8-.8-2005    8-22-2005   TSO, Table II
110.80-11-2005   12-19-2005  TSO, Table II
110.080-1-2006   1-23-2006   TSO, Table II
920.1-2-2006     1-27-2006   TSO, Table VII
920.1-2A-2006    2-27-2006   TSO, Table VII
110.80-3-2006    3-27-2006   TSO, Table II
                             139.01,
1020.20-4-2006   4-10-2006   139.02,
                             139.99
900.60-03-2006   4-10-2006   TSO, Table VII
130.9-4-06       4-24-2006   30.04
900.60-05-2006   5-8-2006    TSO, Table VII
620.15-5-2006    5-8-2006    TSO, Table VIII
920.1-06-2006    6-12-2006   TSO, Table VII
920.1-07-2006    7-10-2006   TSO, Table VII
920.1-08-2006    8-14-2006   TSO, Table VII
610.6-8A-2006    8-28-2006   54.06
920.1-11-2006    11-13-2006  TSO, Table VII
920.1-01-2007    1-22-2007   TSO, Table VII
110.80-03-2007   3-12-2007   TSO, Table II
110.05A-2007     5-14-2007   TSO, Table II
110.80-05-2007   5-31-2007   TSO, Table II
IA.014-6-2012    6-21-2007   TSO, Table I
110.80-07-2007   7-9-2007    TSO, Table II
110.80-08-2007   8-13-2007   TSO, Table II
900.60-08-2007   9-10-2007   TSO, Table VII
                             92.01 -
620.2-11-2007    11-26-2007  92.15,
                             92.99
115.10-09-2008   - -2008     TSO, Table IV
900.11-11-2007   1-14-2008   158.01
920.1-11-2007    1-14-2008   TSO, Table VII
625.10-02-2008   3-6-2008    TSO, Table VI
620.15-02-2008   3-6-2008    TSO, Table VIII
920.1-2008       6-9-2008    TSO, Table VII
920.1-05-2008    6-9-2008    TSO, Table VII
                             114.001 -
                             114.009,
                             114.020 -
                             114.028,
220.7-6-2008     6-25-2008   114.040 -
                             114.043,
                             114.055 -
                             114.064,
                             114.075 -
                             114.081
110.80-09-2008   9-22-2008   TSO, Table II
830.7-09-08      9-22-2008   TSO, Table V
110.80-10-2008   10-13-2008  TSO, Table II
920.1-10-2008    10-22-2008  TSO, Table VII
220.7-12-2008    12-22-2008  114.059,
                             114.062
610.7-6-2009     6-22-2009   54.03
110.80-08-2009   8-24-2009   TSO, Table II
920.2-11-2009    11-9-2009   TSO, Table VII
920.3-11-2009    11-9-2009   TSO, Table VII
110.20-11-2009   11-23-2009  157.01
220.7-11-2009    11-23-2009  114.001,
                             114.029
830.7-3-2010     3-8-2010    TSO, Table I
920.1-2-2010     3-8-2010    TSO, Table VII
110.80-05-2010   5-24-2010   TSO, Table II
920.4-07-2010    7-26-2010   TSO, Table VII
620.16-09-2010   9-27-2010   TSO, Table VIII
940.10-11-10     11-8-2010   32.07
920.4-11-2010    12-13-2010  TSO, Table VII
                             154.01 -
                             154.11,
                             154.25 -
990.1-2-2011     2-28-2011   154.27,
                             154.40 -
                             154.46,
                             154.99
220.3-03-2011    3-14-2011   35.40
220.7-5-2011     5-9-2011    114.001,
                             114.003
1020.30-5-2011   5-9-2011    130.07,
                             130.99
1020.30-6-2011   6-13-2011   130.07
110.70-6-2011    6-27-2011   TSO, Table II
F.2-07-2011      7-11-2011   TSO, Table V
920.4-07-2011    7-25-2011   TSO, Table VII
620.5.09-2011    9-12-2011   95.05
220.17-10-2011   10-10-2011  35.41
330.05-10-2011   10-10-2011  31.21
                             91.01 -
840.2-10-2-2011  10-10-2011  91.12,
                             91.99
F.3-10-2011      10-24-2011  TSO, Table V
920.4-11-2011    11-14-2011  TSO, Table VII
                             132.01 -
350.00-01-12     1-23-2012   132.05,
                             132.99
IA.010-01-2012   2-13-2012   TSO, Table I
920.4-03-2012    3-12-2012   TSO, Table VII
110.80-04-2012   4-23-2012   TSO, Table II
920.4-04-2012    4-23-2012   TSO, Table VII
IA.011-06-2012   6-11-2012   TSO, Table I
IA.014-6-2012    6-21-2012   TSO, Table I
                             111.001 -
                             111.005,
                             111.015 ,
                             111.016,
                             111.018   -
                             111.025,
                             111.035,
                             111.036,
                             111.045 -
                             111.058,
                             111.070,
220.500-09-2012  9-10-2012   111.080 -
                             111.093,
                             111.105,
                             111.115,
                             111.116,
                             111.140,
                             111.150,
                             111.160,
                             111.170 -
                             111.173,
                             111.180,
                             111.999
620.16-09-2012   9-10-2012   TSO, Table VIII
610.6-10-2012    10-22-2012  54.11
220.500-12-2012  12-10-2012  111.070
115.3-01-2013    1-28-2013   TSO, Table IV
120.7-20-2013    2-11-2013   30.03
230.10-02-2013   2-11-2013   32.35 -
                             32.40
840.2-01-2013    2-11-2013   91.02
620.3-05-2013    5-13-2013   70.05
220.500-6-2013   6-24-2013   111.070
                             55.001 -
                             55.007,
                             55.015 ,
                             55.017 -  
                             55.021,
                             55.035 -
                             55.040,
                             55.050 -
                             55.060,
                             55.070 -
                             55.080,
                             55.090 -
610.1-07-08-13   7-8-2013    55.094,
                             55.105 -
                             55.111,
                             55.125 -
                             55.131,
                             55.145 -
                             55.158,
                             55.170,
                             55.171,
                             55.185 -
                             55.194,
                             55.205 -
                             55.212,
                             55.999
920.4-07-2013    7-22-2013   TSO, Table VII
610.6-9-2013     9-9-2013    54.06
220.17-09-2013   9-23-2013   35.41
920.4-12-2013    12-9-2013   TSO, Table VII
110.80-10-2013   10-14-2013  TSO, Table II
920.4-10-2013    10-28-2013  TSO, Table VII
                             111.002,
                             111.003,
                             111.005,
                             111.015 ,
                             111.016,
                             111.018   -
                             111.020,
220.500-11-2013  11-25-2013  111.047,
                             111.051,
                             111.053,
                             111.070,
                             111.083,
                             111.105,
                             111.115,
                             111.116
                             54.02,
610.7-01-2014    1-13-2014   54.04,
                             54.07
920.4-04-2014    4-28-2014   TSO, Table VII
920.4-04-28-2014 4-28-2013   TSO, Table VII
221.10-06-2014   5-23-2014   35.04
                             96.01 -
                             96.04,
                             96.05,
                             96.07 -
440.11-07-2014   6-23-2014   96.11,
                             96.13 -
                             94.17,
                             96.20,
                             96.21,
                             96.99
                             50.55,
610.7-06-2014    6-23-2014   50.56,
                             50.99
220.11-09-2014   9-22-2014   35.38
220.13-09-2014   9-22-2014   35.39
220.17-09-2014   10-10-2014  35.41
920.4-10-2014-A  10-10-2014  TSO, Table VII
920.4-10-2014-B  10-10-2014  TSO, Table VII
110.80-12-2014   12-8-2014   TSO, Table II
2015-001         1-26-2015   54.06
2015-002         1-26-2015   TSO, Table IV
2015-003         1-26-2015   54.03
2015-004         3-23-2015   56.01 -
                             56.12
2015-005         3-9-2015    TSO, Table VII
2015-006         3-9-2015    TSO, Table II
2015-007         3-23-2015   TSO, Table VII
2015-012         7-13-2015   TSO, Table VII
2015-013         10-26-2015  70.06
2015-014         8-27-2015   35.41
2015-015         9-28-2015   54.02,
                             54.04
2015-016         10-26-2015  TSO, Table I
2015-17          12-14-2015  158.01
2016-001         3-28-2016   TSO, Table V
2016-003         4-25-2016   31.22
2016-004         4-25-2016   TSO, Table VIII
2016-006         6-27-2016   54.12
2016-009         7-25-2016   TSO, Table VII
2016-010         9-12-2016   159.01 -
                             159.05
2016-011         9-12-2016   35.41
                             160.01 -
2016-012         10-10-2016  160.20,
                             160.22 -
                             160.24
2016-013         10-10-2016  TSO, Table II
2016-014         11-14-2016  TSO, Table VII
2016-015         12-12-2016  TSO, Table I
2017-001         2-13-2017   TSO, Table I
2017-002         1-23-2017   160.05
2017-003         2-13-2017   TSO, Table VII
                             111.016,
2017-004         2-13-2017   111.018,
                             111.021
2017-007         5-8-2017    54.11
2017-008         5-8-2017    TSO, Table VIII
2017-011         7-24-2017   54.05,
                             54.08
2017-012         8-28-2017   TSO, Table VII
2017-013         9-11-2017   TSO, Table VII
2017-014         9-27-2017   35.41
2017-016         10-9-2017   TSO, Table II
2017-017         10-9-2017   71.20
2017-020         12-11-2017  TSO, Table VII
2017-021         1-8-2018    TSO, Table I
2017-022         1-8-2018    Adopting Ordinance
2018-001         3-12-2018   158.01
2018-002         3-26-2018   55.072
2018-003         3-26-2018   30.03
                             161.01 -
2018-005         4-9-2018    161.10.
                             161.99
2018-006         4-9-2018    35.42
                             119.01 -
2018-007         4-23-2018   119.06,
                             119.99
2018-008         5-14-2018   TSO, Table VII
2018-010         6-11-2018   Adopting Ordinance
2018-012         8-13-2018   130.07
2018-013         8-27-2018   35.36
2018-014         9-10-2018   35.41
2018-017         11-19-2018  161.07
                             111.016,
                             111.017,
2018-018         12-10-2018  111.018,
                             111.070,
                             111.091
2018-019         12-10-2018  TSO, Table I
2018-020         12-10-2018  TSO, Table II
2018-021         12-10-2018  TSO, Table II
2018-022         12-10-2018  TSO, Table II
2018-023         12-10-2018  TSO, Table II
2018-024         12-10-2018  TSO, Table II
2018-025         12-10-2018  TSO, Table I
2018-026         12-10-2018  TSO, Table I
2019-001         1-28-2019   TSO, Table VIII
2019-002         2-11-2019   TSO, Table VIII
2019-003         2-25-2019   TSO, Table VIII
2019-004         3-11-2019   TSO, Table I
2019-005         3-11-2019   TSO, Table I
2019-006         3-11-2019   158.01
2019-008         3-11-2019   TSO, I
                             95.99,
                             114.001,
2019-009         4-8-2019    114.003.
                             114.007
                             Repeal 95.37; Chs. 53, 110, 117
                             36.01 -
                             36.05,
                             36.10 -
                             36.23,
2019-012         4-22-2019   36.30 -
                             36.35,
                             36.40,
                             36.41,
                             36.99
                             Repeal 33.02
2019-013         6-10-2019   TSO, Table II
2019-014         6-24-2019   TSO, Table I
2019-015         7-8-2019    TSO, Table II
2019-016         7-22-2019   TSO, Table VII
2019-017         8-15-2019   TSO, Table V
2019-018         8-12-2019   158.01
2019-019         8-29-2019   35.41
                             72.01 -
2019-020         9-9-2019    72.06,
                             72.99,
                             Ch. 75, Sch. I
2019-021         9-23-2019   30.03
2019-022         9-23-2019   TSO, Table VII
2019-023         10-14-2019  Adopting Ordinance
2019-024         10-28-2019  150.01
2019-025         11-25-2019  TSO, Table I
2019-026         12-9-2019   158.01
2019-027         12-9-2019   TSO, Table VII
2019-028         12-9-2019   TSO, Table VII
2019-029         11-25-2019  TSO, Table I
2020-001         1-27-2020   TSO, Table VII
                             151.15,
                             151.16,
2020-002         2-24-2020   152.01,
                             153.02,
                             153.11,
                             158.01; Repeal 151.18
2020-003         4-13-2020   TSO, Table VII
2020-004         4-27-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-008         8-10-2020   TSO, Table VIII
2020-009         8-24-2020   Adopting Ordinance
2020-010         9-14-2020   TSO, Table VII
2020-011         9-14-2020   TSO, Table VII
2020-012         9-14-2020   35.41
2020-013         9-28-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-014         9-28-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-015         9-28-2020   158.01
2020-016         10-26-2020  TSO, Table VII
2020-017         11-9-2020   158.01
2020-019         1-11-2021   TSO, Table VII
2020-020         1-11-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-001         1-25-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-002         2-22-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-003         2-22-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-004         2-22-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-005         2-22-2021   TSO, Table I
2021-006         4-26-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-007         5-10-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-009         5-24-2021   TSO, Table I
2021-010         5-11-2021   TSO, Table I
2021-011         6-1-2021    TSO, Table VII
2021-012         6-14-2021   TSO, Table VI
2021-014         7-26-2021   TSO, Table I
2021-015         7-26-2021   Adopting Ordinance
2021-016         8-16-2021   TSO, Table V
2021-017         8-23-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-018         8-23-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-019         8-23-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-020         9-13-2021   35.41
2021-021         9-13-2021   158.01
2021-022         9-29-2021   TSO, Table VIII
2021-023         10-11-2021  TSO, Table V
2021-024         10-14-2021  TSO, Table V
2021-025         10-25-2021  150.01
                             96.01 -
2021-026         11-8-2021   96.21,
                             96.98,
                             96.99
2021-028         11-8-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-029         11-8-2021   TSO, Table VII
2021-030         12-16-2021  TSO, Table V
2021-031         11-22-2021  TSO, Table II
2021-032         11-22-2021  TSO, Table II
2021-033         1-10-2022   161.07
2021-034         12-16-2021  TSO, Table VII
2021-035         12-16-2021  TSO, Table II
2021-036         12-16-2021  TSO, Table II
2022-001         1-24-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-003         2-14-2022   54.04
2022-004         2-28-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-005         2-28-2022   TSO, Table I
2022-006         2-28-2022   TSO, Table V
                             156.01 -
                             156.08,
                             156.20 -
                             156.31,
                             156.40 -
2022-007         3-14-2022   156.54,
                             156.70 -
                             156.77,
                             156.80,
                             156.81,
                             156.98,
                             156.99
2022-008         3-28-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-010         3-28-2022   TSO, Table I
2022-011         - -         TSO, Table I
2022-012         4-11-2022   30.04
2022-013         4-11-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-014         5-9-2022    TSO, Table VII
2022-018         7-25-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-019         8-8-2022    TSO, Table VII
2022-020         8-22-2022   35.41
2022-021         8-22-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2022-022         8-22-2022   TSO, Table VII
2022-023         8-22-2022   TSO, Table II
2022-024         10-10-2022  TSO, Table II
2022-025         10-24-2022  TSO, Table VII
2022-026         1-9-2023    158.01
2023-001         1-9-2023    TSO, Table VII
2023-002         1-9-2023    TSO, Table I
2023-003         1-9-2023    TSO, Table II
2023-004         1-23-2023   55.072
2023-005         1-23-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-006         - -         TSO, Table I
2023-007         2-13-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-008         2-13-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-009         2-13-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-010         2-13-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-011         2-13-2023   160.01 -
                             160.24
2023-013         - -         TSO, Table II
2023-014         4-10-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-015         4-10-2023   54.04
2023-017         5-8-2023    TSO, Table VII
2023-018         5-22-2023   158.01
2023-019         5-22-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-020         6-12-2023   TSO, Table VII
                             150.18,
2023-022         6-26-2023   150.20 -
                             150.22,
                             150.24
2023-023         6-26-2023   TSO, Table II
2023-025         6-26-2023   160.19
2023-026         7-10-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-028         8-28-2023   TSO, Table II
2023-029         8-28-2023   TSO, Table VII
2023-031         9-11-2023   30.03
2023-032         9-11-2023   TSO, Table VIII
2023-034         10-23-2023  TSO, Table VII
2023-036         11-13-2023  130.06
2023-037         12-11-2023  TSO, Table II
2023-038         12-11-2023  TSO, Table VII
2023-039         1-8-2024    TSO, Table VIII
2024-001         1-22-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-002         1-22-2024   TSO, Table VII
2024-007         2-26-2024   TSO, Table VII
2024-005         4-8-2024    150.21
2024-009         4-8-2024    TSO, Table II
2024-010         4-8-2024    161.04
2024-011         4-22-2024   TSO, Table VII
2024-012         5-13-2024   30.02,
                             30.03
2024-013         5-13-2024   TSO, Table VII
                             50.18,
                             50.23,
                             50.24,
2024-016         6-10-2024   50.39,
                             50.40,
                             50.55,
                             50.56,
                             50.99
                             54.04,
2024-017         6-10-2024   54.06,
                             54.10 -
                             54.12
                             55.051 -
                             55.053,
                             55.055,
2024-018         6-10-2024   55.059,
                             55.072,
                             55.080,
                             55.209,
                             55.211
2024-015         6-24-2024   132.06
2024-019         6-24-2024   111.017,
                             111.018
2024-021         7-8-2024    157.01
                            
 
 
