City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky
Code of Ordinances
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through June 2, 2025; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024 Acts Issue
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor                       Jude Hehman
                            
City Council Members
Vicki Boerger               Kim Nachazel
Mary Burns                  Greg Pohlgeers
Jerry Deatherage            Alyson Roeding
Scott McVey                  
                            
City Attorney               Olivia Amlung
                            
City Administrative Officer Edwin King
                            
City Clerk/Treasurer        Amy Guenther
                            
Police Chief                Andrew Schierberg
                            
Fire Chief                  Adam Fuller
                            
Public Works Director       Nick Tewes
                            
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2001-11
   AN ORDINANCE APPROVING, ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND REPEALING CERTAIN PRIOR ORDINANCES AND
PARTS THEREOF
   WHEREAS, the City of Fort Mitchell is authorized by KRS 83A.060(5) to adopt
a codification of local legislation by reference;
   WHEREAS, the City of Fort Mitchell has created a codification of legislation
covering the following subjects:
      Title I:            General Provisions
      Title III:         Administration
      Title V:         Public Works
      Title VII:         Traffic Code
      Title IX:         General Regulations
      Title XI:         Business Regulations
      Title XIII:         General Offenses
      Title XV:         Land Usage
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY, as
follows:
Section 1.  That the ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, of a
general and permanent nature, as attached hereto and made a part of this
ordinance as if fully copied herein, are hereby approved, adopted and enacted
as the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.
Section 2. A copy of the Code of Ordinances, as adopted, shall accompany this
ordinance and shall be made a part of the permanent records of the City
pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5).
Section 3. This Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky
contains all of the provisions of a general and permanent nature pertaining to
the subjects therein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances and parts of
ordinances in force as of the effective date hereof pertaining to the subjects
enumerated and embraced in this Code of Ordinances are hereby repealed as of
the effective date hereof.
Section 4. The repeal of the ordinances as provided in Section 3 above shall
not pertain to or affect the following:
   (a)   Any ordinance of a temporary nature, or any ordinance pertaining to
subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Code of Ordinances;
   (b)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date hereof;
   (c)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money to or by the City, authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes of the
City, specifically including but not limited to industrial revenue bonds and
other Special Purpose Bonds, or authorizing any other evidence of the City
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
   (d)   Any right of franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution of the
City Council of the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky to any person or
corporation or other entity;
   (e)   Any ordinance establishing budgets, salaries and fees to be paid by
the City or levying and imposing taxes, assessments, or charges of any nature;
   (f)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to the effective date hereof;
   (g)   Any ordinance annexing any land into the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, or closing any street or public way. Any Special Ordinance as set
forth in the Table of Special Ordinances constituting a part of this Code of
Ordinances.
   (h)   Any ordinance which may be adopted by the City Council of the City of
Fort Mitchell, Kentucky after the date hereof.
Section 5. This Ordinance shall forthwith be published in accordance with KRS
83A.060(9) and shall become effective as of January 7, 2002.
               CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
               ____________________________________
               Thomas E. Holocher, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________
Linda Coburn, City Clerk
First Reading:      December 17, 2001
Second Reading:   January 7, 2002
Adoption:                                         
Published:                                         
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-15
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND DIRECTING THIS ORDINANCE BE PUBLISHED
BY SUMMARY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed A supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the enactment of Ordinance 2001-11 to the Code of Ordinances of this
City; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
elimination of redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions in the
City’s Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, as
follows:
   SECTION I
   That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, if any, hereby repealed.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage and publication according to law.
   SECTION IV
   This ordinance shall be published by summary.
                           CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
                        BY:____________________________________
                           Thomas E. Holocher, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________
Linda Coburn, City Clerk
First Reading:   9-20-04
Second Reading:   10-04-04
Published:      10-13-04
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND DIRECTING THIS ORDINANCE BE PUBLISHED
BY SUMMARY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the enactment of Ordinance 2005-19 to the Code of Ordinances of this
City; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
elimination of redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions in the
City’s Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, as
follows:
   SECTION I
   That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, if any, hereby repealed.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage and publication according to law.
   SECTION IV
   This ordinance shall be published by summary.
                                    CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
                                    BY:____________________________________
                                    Thomas E. Holocher, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________
Amy B. Able, City Clerk
First Reading:   March 6, 2006
Second Reading:   March 20, 2006
Published:      March 22, 2006
ORDINANCE 2011-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND DIRECTING THIS ORDINANCE BE PUBLISHED
BY SUMMARY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the enactment of Ordinance 2006-1 to the Code of Ordinances of this City;
and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
elimination of redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions in the
City’s Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, as
follows:
   SECTION I
   That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, if any, hereby repealed.
   SECTION III
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage and publication according to law.
   SECTION IV
   This Ordinance shall be published by summary.
                                    CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
                                    BY: Christopher D. Wiest /s/
                                    Christopher D. Wiest, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy B. Able /s/
Amy B. Able, City Clerk
Date of First Reading:      January 3, 2011
Date of Second Reading:   February 7, 2011
Date Published:      June 30, 2011
ORDINANCE 2014-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND DIRECTING THIS ORDINANCE BE PUBLISHED
BY SUMMARY
   WHEREAS, pursuant to KRS 83A.060(11) American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed a supplement to the code of ordinances of the
City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general nature enacted since the enactment of Ordinance 2011-01 to the Code of
Ordinances of this city; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
elimination of redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid provisions in the
city’s Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky as
follows:
   SECTION I
   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, if any, hereby repealed.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage and publication according to law.
   SECTION IV
   This ordinance shall be published by summary.
                                    CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
                                    BY: Christopher D. Wiest /s/
                                    Christopher D. Wiest, Mayor
ATTEST:
Linda Carter /s/
Linda Carter, City Clerk
Date of First Reading:         June 2, 2014
Date of Second Reading:      June 23, 2014
Date Published:         June 26, 2014
ORDINANCE 2016-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY AND DIRECTING THIS ORDINANCE BE PUBLISHED
BY SUMMARY
   WHEREAS, pursuant to KRS 83A.060(11) American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general nature enacted since the enactment of Ordinance 2014-11 to the Code of
Ordinances of this City; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which arc based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
elimination of redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid provisions in the
City's Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky as
follows:
   SECTION I
   That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort Mitchell,
Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in it entirety.
   SECTION II
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, if any, hereby repealed.
   SECTION III
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage and publication according to law.
   SECTION IV
   This Ordinance shall be published by summary.
                                    CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
                                    BY: Jude S. Hehman /s/
                                    Jude S. Hehman, Mayor
ATTEST:
Linda Bartels /s/
Linda Bartels, City Clerk
Date of First Reading:      August 22, 2016
Date of Second Reading:   September 19, 2016
Date Published:      September 28, 2016
ORDINANCE 2020-08
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort
Mitchell, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality
through June 30 2020; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, the 2020 adopted legislative changes to Kentucky laws and
regulations have not been codified by the Kentucky Legislative Research
Commission and are not included in this codification;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Fort Mitchell:
   SECTION 1. That the 2020-08 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 24th day of September, 2020.
             /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2023-01
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
FORT MITCHELL, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2022 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Fort
Mitchell, which contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted July 1,
2020 through September 19, 2022; Ordinances 1975-18, 1984-07, 1988-10 and State
legislation current through KRS 2022 Acts Issue.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes:
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Fort Mitchell:
   SECTION 1. That the 2022-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publications as required by law.
Passed and signed this 9th day of January 2023.
 
             /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the Fort
Mitchell Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010 (2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and  registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   BIENNIUM. The two year period commencing on July 1 in each even-numbered
year and ending on June 30 in the ensuing even- numbered year.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Fort Mitchell irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010 (9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010 (10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010 (5))
   COUNTY. Kenton County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010 (12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010 (13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of this
state. (KRS 446.010 (14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010 (6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010 (17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of
any other state. (KRS 446.010 (18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010 (23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010 (8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilmember. (KRS 83A.010 (8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010 (25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010 (26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010 (27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (28))
   PARTNERSHIP.  Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010 (31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010 (37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010 (39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the  person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, district or otherwise. (KRS 446.010 (46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010 (47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   A method of amendment should be used by the city to amend, add or
repeal a chapter, section or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   CITY COUNCIL
   
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
36.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
   
37.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
   
38.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
   
39.   TAXATION
   
40.   DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS
   
41.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
   
42. HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130 (1)) ('88 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance. (KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of seven members. (KRS 83A.030 (1))
('88 Code, § 30.02) (Am. Ord. 2013-25, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2013-34, passed
3-3-14)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
Nonelected Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city officials
   
31.31   Reserved
   
31.31.1   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.32   City Administrative Officer
   
31.33   City Attorney
   
31.34   City Treasurer
   
31.35   Police Chief
   
31.36   Fire Chief
   
31.37   Public Works Director
   
31.38   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
31.39   Director of Emergency Management
   
31.40   Citation Officer
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Chapter 32
   Fire Department, see §§
35.20 through
35.33
   Police Department, see §§ 35.65 through 35.72
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. All officers, officials and employees of the city who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give good and sufficient
bond to the city for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties
and as security for all money coming into that persons’ hands or under that
person’s control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle and may be satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond
covering all or a group of city officers, officials and employees. The premiums
therefor shall be paid from the general funds of the city.
('88 Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of appointed city
officers and city employees in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
('88 Code, § 31.02) (Am. Ord. 2002-10, passed 8-15-02)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.  
      (1)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his office, may be removed from
office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City Council exclusive of any
member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his removal.
      (2)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record.
      (3)   No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
('88 Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040
(9)
   For provisions concerning the removal of nonelected officers, see KRS
83A.080 (2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall forego the conducting of a non-partisan primary
election for the nomination of candidates to city office, regardless of the
number of candidates running for each office. All candidates are required to
file their nomination papers with the County Clerk not later than the second
Tuesday in August before the day fixed by KRS Ch. 118 for holding a regular
election, or as otherwise hereafter required by law.
   (B)   The city elects and adopts the provisions of KRS 83A.045(2)(b) as
applicable to the non- partisan election of candidates to city office.
('88 Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 1988-14, passed 10-17-88; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01)
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less that one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed mayor in response to a vacancy
and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not
be considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1), (2) and (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040 (2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040 (7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040 (8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040 (2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor- Council Plan,
city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130 (3))
      (4)   (a)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city
government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or
upon revision or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the
person responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130 (4))
         (b)   Subject to disapproval of the City Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate policies and procedures applicable to all offices and posts in city
departments, except the following offices and posts: all elected officials, all
members of boards and commissions, the City Attorney or other legal counsel,
consultants, advisors and counsel rendering temporary professional services,
the City Engineer, independentcontractors and members of volunteer
organizations. (Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-97)
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130 (7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130 (8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130 (9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
the action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of division (C)
above shall apply. (KRS 83A.130 (10))
('88 Code, § 31.21)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Chapter 30
NONELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices and officers: City Clerk,
City Administrative Officer, Fire Chief, and Police Chief.
('88 Code, § 31.35) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2018-01, passed
2-5-18)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (1) and
(2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 1984-
14, passed 10-15-84)
   (B)   (1)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the
office.
      (2)   The city appoints and designates the City Clerk as the Collector of
Taxes and Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator for the city.
(Ord. 1967-1, passed 1-16-67)
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department of
Local Government, a list containing current city information, including but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   The Department for Local Government shall immediately forward one
copy of the information received from each City Clerk to the Legislative
Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
      (7)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for, and shall have the duties
of acting as Tax Collector for the city, and in that capacity shall prepare and
mail, as well as collect, all tax bills for the city.
      (8)   The City Clerk shall furthermore act as Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator, which duties shall be the same with respect to city licenses and
regulations, as the functions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no regulation
adopted by the Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating
to alcoholic beverage control, or than the regulations of the State Board. No
regulation of the Administrator shall become effective until it has been
approved by State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (D)   Compensation shall be set by the City Council in the pay and
classification plan.
   (E)   The City Clerk, in his capacity as such and including his duties as
City Tax Collector and Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, shall post
bond in conformance with §
31.01(B), and shall take the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (F)   Qualifications. The City Clerk shall:
      (1)   Be a graduate of an accredited college or university with a
bachelor’s degree, and shall possess one of the following:
         (a)   At least four years experience in a management role within
government in a government agency and supervision of at least three employees,
provided such service serves a population of at least 3,500 residents, which
shall include, but is not limited to, four years prior service as a City Clerk
or Deputy City Clerk, which includes experience in the custody of records, and
legal requirements associated with government;
         (b)   A paralegal certificate or Juris Doctor degree;
         (c)   A Master's Degree in Public Administration; or
         (d)   A Master's Degree in Business Administration; or
      (2)   Or possess an equivalent combination of education and experience.
('88 Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-
10-13; Am. Ord. 2013-32, passed 10-22-13; Am. Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-5-18)
§ 31.31.1 RESERVED.
Ed. Note:
   Section 31.31.1 regarding Deputy City Clerk repealed by Ordinance 2022-12,
adopted June 20, 2022.
§ 31.32 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Establishment; oath. There is hereby created the office of City
Administrative Officer. The City Administrative Officer shall take the oath of
officers as set forth in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The City Administrative Officer shall be graduated from an
accredited college or university with at least a bachelor’s degree and shall
possess not less than three years of progressively responsible experience in
management, preferably in local government.
      (2)   The City Administrative Officer shall further possess at least one
of the following:
         (a)   A Master's Degree in Business Administration;
         (b)   A Master’s Degree in Public Administration;
         (c)   A Juris Doctor Degree; or
         (d)   A bachelor’s degree and at least five years of experience in the
capacity of a City Administrator, County Administrator, Manager. City
Coordinator, or executive authority, in a municipality or county of at least
3,500 residents.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers, duties and responsibilities of the City
Administrative Officer shall be as follows:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor in policy formulation on overall problems of the
city;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the Mayor;
      (3)   Advise the Mayor in the appointment of subordinate administrative
personnel if not delegated appointment authority by appropriate order;
      (4)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs;
      (5)   Have general supervision of the Police Department and of the
conduct of all city police officers and police employees, including the Police
Chief, who shall report directly to the City Administrative Officer;
      (6)   Have supervision of the purchasing of all services and supplies for
the city, if delegated that authority by the Mayor; and
      (7)   Carry out all additional duties lawfully delegated by appropriate
order of the Mayor.
   (D)   Bond. The City Administrative Officer shall be bonded in conformance
with §
31.01(B). (Ord. 1981-20, passed 1-5-81; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
   (E)   Compensation. Compensation shall be in set by the City Council in the
pay and classification plan.
('88 Code, § 31.38) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
Cross-reference:
   Discrimination Based on Handicapped Status, see
Chapter 40
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on the City Administrative Officer, see KRS 83A.090
§ 31.33 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall contract with a practicing attorney for a period of
not less than two years, nor more than four years, who shall have been licensed
to practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky for a period of not less than
four years, to provide general legal services for the city, and to act as City
Attorney. The contract shall provide for that attorney or that attorney's firm
to provide legal services as the City Attorney as set forth in this section.
The attorney or firm shall provide evidence of malpractice insurance coverage
in the amount of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate.
The contract for general legal services as City Attorney shall be approved by
the City Council, but nothing in this section shall abrogate the Mayor's
ability to hire contractors for specific projects as may be necessary.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the City Attorney shall be as follows:
      (1)   The City Attorney shall serve as legal advisor to the City Council,
and to city officers and employees on matters pertaining to their duties.
Unless excused by the Mayor, the City Attorney shall attend all regularly
scheduled City Council meetings, and shall attend special Council meetings and
administrative board meetings upon request. The City Attorney shall prepare or
review all contracts of the city submitted to him, and shall prepare all normal
and usual administrative ordinances, executive orders and legal correspondence.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall prosecute and defend the city in any and
all suits or actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in
which it may be interested. The City Attorney shall perform all legal work in
connection with any improvement projects of the city, including ordinances,
resolutions and other documents, including easements, connected therewith. The
City Attorney shall assist with the collection of unpaid taxes and assessments
of the city, and shall perform other duties as may from time to time be
required by the City Council or the Mayor.
('88 Code, § 31.39) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 31.34 CITY TREASURER.
   (A) Establishment; powers and duties. There is hereby established the office
of City Treasurer. The Treasurer’s duties shall be that of receiving and safely
keeping all moneys which come into his hands as City Treasurer. The Treasurer
shall pay out these moneys on warrants, drafts or checks signed by one of the
following individuals: the Mayor, the City Administrative Officer, the City
Clerk, or the City Treasurer. The Treasurer shall make settlements when
required by the City Council. (Ord. 1967-1, passed 1-16-67; Am. Ord. 2001-05,
passed 8-29-01)
   (B)   Appointment. The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be removed by the
Mayor at will.
   (C)   Qualifications.  The City Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Be graduated from an accredited college or university with a
bachelor’s degree; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   Be a certified public accountant; or
         (b)   Have at least five years of accounting and finance experience,
with at least one year of that prior experience with a municipality or county
with a population of at least 3,500 residents.
   (D)   Bond. The City Treasurer shall be bonded in conformance with §
31.01(B). (Ord. 1968-4, passed 1-15-68; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
   (E)   Oath. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Treasurer unless
the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (F)   Compensation. Compensation shall be set by the City Council in the pay
and classification plan.
('88 Code, § 31.42) (Ord. 1987-15, passed 11-2-87; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 31.35 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Establishment.  The office of Police Chief is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment. The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be removed by the
Mayor at will.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Police Chief shall:
      (1)   (a)   A bachelor’s degree in police science, criminal justice,
management, business administration, public administration, or a related field
from an accredited college or university is preferred with at least fifteen
years as a police officer and five years at the supervisory level of Sergeant
or above; or
         (b)   Have a combination of education, training, skill and experience
which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform
effectively the duties of the position of Police Chief;
      (2)   Reside in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, must be at least 21 years
of age, able to read and write the English language intelligibly, and must be
sober, moral and sagacious, and not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (3)   Submit to and successfully pass a medical examination conducted by
a licensed physician approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief
unless the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in
conformance with §
31.01(B).
   (E)   Powers and duties.  The Police Chief shall perform and be responsible
for the following duties. He shall:
      (1)   Be in command of the Police Department, except that the Police
Chief shall be second in command to the Mayor.
      (2)   Perform all duties required or imposed by state law for Chiefs of
Police as same may be changed, amended or revised from time to time.
      (3)   Attend all sessions of the City Council and preserve order at its
sessions.
      (4)   Report to the City Council at least quarterly, detailing the
activities of the Police Department.
      (5)   Seek ways to improve the level of police service to the community.
      (6)   Be available for consultation with members of city government and
citizens of the community to discuss particular police problems.
      (7)   Read police trade publications to keep abreast of new techniques.
      (8)   Supervise or perform tasks related to investigation of crimes and
potential criminal activities in the city.
      (9)   Supervise or prepare various reports regarding crime incidence in
the city.
      (10)   Explore and develop plans for acquisition of federal and state
funds or programs to meet the needs of the Police Department.
      (11)   Assist in formulating the budget for the Police Department,
justify it and maintain the Police Department’s operations within that budget
as approved by the City Council.
      (12)   Attend police seminars and training programs as frequently as
possible, with the prior consent of the Mayor.
      (13)   Institute training programs for members of the Police Department
and supervise the training of its members.
      (14)   Become affiliated with professional police organizations and
extract the maximum possible benefit from his exposure to the memberships.
   (F)   Compensation. The compensation of the Police Chief shall be in the
amount as established by City Council in the pay and classification plan.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-7-16)
§ 31.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of Fire Chief is hereby established, which
shall be a full-time paid position.
   (B)   Appointment.  The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be removed by the
Mayor at will.
   (C)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Fire Chief
unless the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in
conformance with §
31.01(B).
   (D)   Compensation.  The compensation of the Fire Chief shall be established
by the City Council in the pay and classification plan.
   (E)   Job description, qualifications, and duties. The job summary,
characteristics of the class, essential functions and responsibilities,
examples of duties, position qualifications, position type/expected hours of
work and summary relating to the position of Fire Chief are attached as Exhibit
A to Ord. 2015-16, and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-5-15)
§ 31.37 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of Public Works Director is hereby
established.
   (B)   Appointment.  The Public Works Director shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; and may
be removed by the Mayor at will.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Public Works Director shall:
      (1)   Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or
university; and
      (2)   (a)   Possess a master’s degree in construction management,
business administration, public administration, or a closely related field;
with at least three years’ experience at the general manager or contractor
level;
         (b)   Have had at least five years’ experience as a Kentucky-licensed
architect;
         (c)   Have had at least five years’ experience as a Kentucky-licensed
engineer;
         (d)   Have had at least five years’ experience as a general contractor
in construction that includes overall responsibility for designing,
supervising, and ensuring construction according to plans and specifications on
construction projects totaling at least $750,000 per year for each of the five
years; or
         (e)   Have had at least five years’ experience as the Director of
Public Works for a city with a population of at least 3.500; and
      (3)   Submit to and successfully pass a medical examination conducted by
a licensed physician approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Public Works
Director unless the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in
conformance with §
31.01(B).
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Administer and enforce the uniform state building code and all
zoning, building, and construction codes, ordinances, and regulations of the
city as the official indicated therein, including performing the duties of
Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator, to be responsible therefor, with
the exception of those relating to fire prevention and protection pursuant to
KRS Chapter 227; and
      (2)   Supervise, control, and be responsible for the operation of the
Department of Public Works; be responsible for the maintenance and repair of
city buildings, streets, and properties, and the performance of the functions
and duties of the personnel thereof; and ensure that sufficient equipment and
supplies necessary therefor are acquired and maintained.
      (3)   Manage, oversee, plan, and direct outside contractors and engineers
in the maintenance, repair, and rebuilding of city streets.
      (4)   Included in the authority, powers, duties and responsibilities of
this office or position are those of a citation officer as provided in KRS
83A.087.
   (F)   Compensation.  The compensation of the Public Works Director shall be
in the amount as established by City Council in the pay and classification
plan.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 31.38 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The city hereby establishes the office of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator. This office shall be filled by the City Clerk
as set forth in §
31.31 (B)(2).
   (B)   Functions, powers and duties. The functions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator shall be the same with respect to city licenses and
regulations, as the functions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no regulation
adopted by the Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating
to alcoholic beverage control, or than the regulations of the State Board. No
regulation of the Administrator shall become effective until it has been
approved by State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. (KRS 241.190)
   (C)   Compensation. Compensation shall be in the amount as established by
the City Council from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator unless the person has taken the oath required by
Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has
provided a bond in conformance with §
31.01(B).
('88 Code, § 31.44) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Chapter 111
   City Clerk, see §
31.31
§ 31.39 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Homeland Security and Emergency Management Director of Kenton
County, Kentucky be, and that he or she hereby is, designated as the Director
of Emergency Management for the city to perform the duties and responsibilities
of a director of local emergency management agency as prescribed in KRS
Chapters 39A through 39F.
   (B)   That when acting as the Director of Emergency Management for the city,
the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Director of Kenton County,
Kentucky shall utilize a Unified Command System (UCS) that is recognized by the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and to include, as needed, the
Mayor, the City Administrator, the Fire Chief, the Police Chief, and the Public
Works Director of the city.
   (C)   In no case shall the city seek reimbursement for the Director of
Emergency Management's salary for time spent in another capacity.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 6-5-06)
§ 31.40 CITATION OFFICER.
   Pursuant to KRS 83.087, the office of citation officer is hereby created.
All city citation officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be
empowered to issue civil citations for violations of the code of ordinances
which are classified as civil offenses and which are subject to the
jurisdiction of the Code Enforcement Board. Individuals appointed as citations
officers must take the Constitutional oath of office and may be removed with or
without cause by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-18-06)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election and qualifications
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Use of City Building
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
   
32.18   Rules of procedure
   
32.19   Reserved
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council- member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for a
legislative body shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year
prior to his or her election. Terms of office begin January 1 following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040 (4)) ('88 Code, § 32.01)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see §
31.02
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining members
in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If vacancies
occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint
qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum.
Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section. (KRS 83A.040 (5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040
(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040 (8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040 (6))
('88 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on filling vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS
83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130 (11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare. (KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office
or agency in the course of any investigation. (KRS 83A.130 (13))
('88 Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 USE OF CITY BUILDING.
   The City Council is authorized to designate the occupancy or use of any or
all of the city building, and the use or occupancy of the city building may be
permitted or designated without the passage or publication of any other
ordinance or resolution.
('88 Code, § 32.04)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. Pursuant to KRS
83A.130(5), at any regular or special meeting of the City Council, at which the
Mayor is absent, the Council Member present at the meeting who has served the
most consecutive years on Council shall preside at such meeting without any
further action required of Council. The calculation of consecutive years must
include the current term that the Council Member is serving. If two or more
Council Member have served the same number of consecutive years on Council, and
both or all are present at the meeting, then the Council Member receiving the
most votes in the most recent general election of Council Members shall
preside.
(Ord. 1981-8, passed 4-20-81; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 4-20-15)
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
('88 Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold regular meetings as set by ordinance.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 4-1-91; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 4-19-04; Am. Ord. 2011-
15, passed 11-7- 11; Am. Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-4-13; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed
6-23-14; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-15; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed 6-15-15; Am.
Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-23-17; Am. Ord. 2020-
10, passed 12-7-20; Am. Ord. 2021-10, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-18, passed
12-5-22; Am. Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-11-23; Am. Ord. 2024-12, passed 12-19-24)
   (B) Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C) At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D) The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk and by
the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11)) ('88 Code, § 32.21)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6)) ('88 Code, § 32.22)
§ 32.18 RULES OF PROCEDURE. 
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the general public
and shall have an agenda proposed for such meeting by the Mayor which agenda
shall be amended as necessary and approved by Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall furnish each member of Council a copy of the
minutes of the previous meeting at least two days prior to each regularly
scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Robert's Rules of Order and Parliamentary Procedure shall govern all
deliberations and debate by and before the City Council.
   (D)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Councilmembers
present, may limit debate on any particular issue before the Council and may
limit the amount of time in which a spectator may address the Council.
('88 Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 1968-3, passed 1-15-68; Am. Ord. 1980-6, passed 5-19-
80; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
§ 32.19 RESERVED.
Ed. Note:
   Section 32.19 regarding Committees repealed by Ordinance 2015-03, adopted
March 2, 2015.
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Fort Mitchell.”
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of § 32.43
shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4) and (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codification of entire bodies of local legislation
by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source, and date
and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting them out
in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a part of the
permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38 (B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to state
law.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of city ordinances, see KRS Chapter
424
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12) and (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the privileges of members of General Assembly, see
KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Returned checks
Industrial Revenue Bond Financing
   
33.15   Scope of regulations
   
33.16   Applications
   
33.17   Notice of application
   
33.18   Review by Council; inducement legislation and notice
   
33.19   Opportunities for public comment
   
33.20   Review by State Oversight Committee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall be from July 1 to June 30.
('88 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 1979-4, passed 2-5-79)
§ 33.02 RETURNED CHECKS.
   There is hereby imposed a charge of $15 on any person or legal entity making
payment to the city of any tax, assessment, fee, penalty, fine or other charge
by check, draft or other similar instrument, which check, draft or other
similar instrument is returned to the city by the bank or other financial
institution upon which the check, draft or other financial institution upon
which the check, draft or other similar instrument is drawn due to insufficient
funds or for any other reason other than an error or fault of the city. The $15
charge shall be due and payable to the city in full immediately and the charge
shall be added to and collected with the amount of the tax, assessment, fee,
penalty, fine or other charge for which the check, draft or other similar
instrument was given to the city. The $15 charge shall be in addition to all
other fines, penalties or other charges due to the city arising out of the
transaction for which the check, draft or other similar instrument was tendered
and/or arising out of the return to the city of the check, draft or other
similar instrument.
('88 Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 1992-1, passed 2-3-92)
INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BOND FINANCING
§ 33.15 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The procedure set out in this subchapter shall apply only to those projects
designated in § 33.16 (A).
('88 Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
§ 33.16 APPLICATIONS.
   (A) All applications to the city for industrial revenue bond financing under
KRS Chapter 103 which are required, under that chapter to be submitted to the
State Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee for approval shall be
submitted to the city, reviewed by the city and if approved, recommended to the
State Industrial Review Bond Oversight Committee according to the procedure
hereinafter set out.
   (B) Applications to the city shall be made in writing on the same
application forms prescribed and adopted by the State Industrial Revenue Bond
Oversight Committee for applications to that committee for review. Eleven
copies of the completed application form, shall be filed with the City Clerk
not less than three business days prior to the meeting of the City Council at
which the project will be presented for initial review.
('88 Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
§ 33.17 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall give notice in writing to the Northern Kentucky Chamber
of Commerce and any other group which has filed a written request with the City
Clerk for notification of the filing of applications, on the same day the
application is filed with the City Clerk. The notice shall briefly describe the
project; give the location of the project; state the amount of the proposed
bond issue; give the date of at least one of the City Council meetings at which
the project shall be presented for review including the date of the meeting;
and inform the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce or other group of its
opportunity to comment to the City Council on the project. A copy of the notice
or notices shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to passage of the
inducement resolution. The City Council shall consider any comments received as
a result of the notice or notices.
('88 Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
§ 33.18 REVIEW BY COUNCIL; INDUCEMENT LEGISLATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Each project shall be initially reviewed by the City Council prior to
presentation of the inducement resolution or ordinance to the City Council for
first reading. The review may be conducted at a regular meeting of the City
Council and a representative of the applicant may be present at the meeting to
explain the project. The City Council shall, if requested by the applicant,
after its initial review and at its next regular meeting, consider the project
and, by roll call vote, pass or reject the proposed inducement resolution or
ordinance, at a first reading.
   (B)   Inducement resolutions or ordinances shall receive two readings by the
City Council. Not less than seven days prior to the second reading of an
inducement resolution or ordinance the applicant shall advertise, in a
newspaper which qualifies under KRS Chapter 424 for legal publication by the
city, notice of the City Council meeting at which the inducement resolution or
ordinance will be considered for second reading. The notice shall include:
      (1)   A statement that the City Council will consider at the meeting,
authorization for industrial revenue bonds to finance the project;
      (2)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (3)   The name of the applicant;
      (4)   The type and location of the project; and
      (5)   A statement that members of the public will have an opportunity to
comment on the project and the bond issue at the meeting.
('88 Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
§ 33.19 OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT TO BE PROVIDED.
   During any City Council meeting at which an inducement resolution or
ordinance for a project covered by this subchapter is considered, a reasonable
opportunity shall be given for the public to provide comments concerning the
bond issue.
('88 Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
§ 33.20 REVIEW BY STATE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   For any project for which an inducement resolution or ordinance
receives passage on second reading in accordance with the procedure set out in
this subchapter, the city will notify the State Industrial Revenue Bond
Oversight Committee in writing of the passage and include in the notification a
statement outlining the benefits that the project will provide for the city and
surrounding area and indicating why the project should be approved by the State
Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee.
   (B)   The meeting of the State Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee
at which a project, so recommended by the city for approval, will be considered
by the State Industrial Revenue Bond Oversight Committee shall be attended by
the Mayor or another person associated with the city, who is designated in
writing by the Mayor as his representative. The Mayor or representative shall
be prepared to explain the position of the city relative to the project and the
bond issue.
('88 Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 1983-11, passed 9-1-83)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to individual records
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   On-line access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder, tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper,  microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by § 34.26.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e..
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) ('88 Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
('88 Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872 (4)) ('88 Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872 (5)) ('88 Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872 (6)) ('88 Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880) ('88 Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
('88 Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of § 34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) ('88 Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of § 34.16. When copies are requested, the
custodian may require a written request and advance payment of the prescribed
fee, including postage where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of
public records other than written records, the custodian of the records shall
duplicate the records or permit the applicant to duplicate the records;
however, the custodian shall ensure that the duplication will not damage or
alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874 (1) - (3))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874 (3) and (4))
Cross-reference:
   On-line access to public records in electronic form, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to § 34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 34.25 ON-LINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   On-line access to public records in electronic form may be provided
and made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide on-line access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in § 34.23.
(KRS 61.874 (6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878 (1) that no court shall authorize the
inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond
that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial
discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until the time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
government function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of § 34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878) ('88 Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
('88 Code, § 34.13)
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Nonsalaried positions
Park and Recreation Board
   
35.10   Park and Recreation Board
Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council
   
35.15   Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council
Fire Department
   
35.20   Establishment
   
35.21   Fire Chief
   
35.22   Assistant Fire Chiefs
   
35.23   Authority in absence of Fire Chief
   
35.24   Reserved
   
35.25   Qualifications and appointment
   
35.26   Probationary period
   
35.27   Stipend
   
35.28   Disciplinary procedures
   
35.29   Reserved
   
35.30   Equipment
   
35.31   Training
   
35.32   Calls outside city; charges
   
35.33   Lights and sirens on private vehicles
Police Department
   
35.65   Establishment
   
35.66   Police Chief
   
35.67   Members; rank and title
   
35.68   Appointment of members
   
35.69   Qualifications for appointment
   
35.70   Powers and duties of officers
   
35.71   Removal of officers
   
35.72   Mandatory retirement age
Tree Commission
   
35.85   Establishment
   
35.86   Definitions
   
35.87   Membership; vacancies
   
35.88   Election; meetings
   
35.89   Powers and duties
   
35.90   Notification of Commission
Cross-reference:
   Board of Adjustments, see Article XVIII of the Zoning Code Board of Ethics,
see §
37.15
   Human Rights Commission, see
Chapter 42
   Local Appeals Board, see Streets and Sidewalks,
Chapter 93
   Personnel Board, see §§
36.01 through
36.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 NONSALARIED POSITIONS.
   Volunteer officers and volunteer members of the Fire Department, and members
of the Park and Recreation Board shall receive no compensation or salary for
their services, but may receive a stipend to cover expenses, which is intended
to cover costs to attend training, gas, mileage, and other out of pocket costs.
('88 Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 1992-4, passed 5-18-92; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-2-
12)
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 35.10  PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the Park and Recreation Board
pursuant to KRS 97.550. ('88 Code, § 35.55) (Ord. 1969-11, passed - -69)
   (B)   Qualifications; compensation; term of office. Members appointed to the
Park and Recreation Board must be residents of the city, shall serve without
salary, shall take the oath of office as prescribed by KRS 97.560, and, with
the exception of the initial Board appointed, shall hold office for a period of
two years or until their successors are appointed and qualified. ('88 Code, §
35.56)
   (C)   Operation. The Park and Recreation Board shall be operated in
accordance with KRS 97.550 through 97.600 and any other applicable statutes.
('88 Code, § 35.57)
Cross-reference:
   Nonsalaried positions, see §
35.01
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 35.15 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is established an Emergency Medical Service Advisory Council
which shall review the state of the delivery of emergency medical services by
way of paramedics, emergency medical technicians and emergency and nonemergency
transport ambulance services, fire departments, police and emergency dispatch.
   (B)   (1)   The Council shall be composed of the following groups or
individuals:
         (a)   Kenton County Fire Chiefs Association;
         (b)   Boone County Fire Chiefs Association;
         (c)   Campbell County Fire Fighters Education Association;
         (d)   St. Elizabeth Hospital;
         (e)   St. Luke Hospital;
         (f)   Northern Kentucky Fire Fighters Association;
         (g)   Northern Kentucky Police Chiefs Association;
         (h)   Northern Kentucky Emergency Medical Service, Inc.;
         (i)   Northern Kentucky Senior Services, Inc.;
         (j)   Northern Kentucky City/County Administrators Association; and
         (k)   Northern Kentucky DES Directors Association.
      (2)   Each respective organization shall designate an individual to
provide impute into the emergency medical needs of the three counties herein.
The individuals, after nomination by their respective sponsoring organization,
shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city for a term of four years, and may
succeed themselves.
   (C)   Upon review of the status of the delivery of emergency medical
services to the city, the Council shall make recommendations to the city and to
each Fiscal Court as to how to best achieve the consistent and efficient
delivery of emergency medical services necessary for the safety and convenience
of the citizens of the city. The findings may be in the form of a proposed
ordinance to be adopted by the city.
   (D)   The Council shall remain in existence after compliance with the above
sections for the purpose of continual monitoring of the state of the delivery
of emergency medical services. The Council shall promulgate rides and
regulations for adoption by the city to achieve the goals of this subchapter.
   (E)   This Council shall be integrated with similar Councils established by
the counties of Kenton, Campbell and Boone and various cities located therein.
The findings and recommendations shall be made with a view to create a unified
system for the delivery of services in the three counties and cities located
therein, including the city.
(Ord. 1997-03, passed 3-3-97)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department for the city, whose membership
shall consist of a Chief, and at least one assistant chief and not more than
four assistant chiefs, and such other officers and members as are deemed
necessary for the effective and efficient operation of the Fire Department.
Assistant Fire Chiefs may be employees or they may be volunteers. All
volunteers and paid staff shall be subject to the City of Fort Mitchell
Personnel Policies and Procedures, as may be amended from time to time, unless
exempted under that policy.
('88 Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-1-88; Am. Ord. 1995-05, passed 6-5-
95; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-2-12; Am.
Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2015-18, passed 12-21-15)
§ 35.21 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be appointed, be qualified, and have the powers and
duties set forth in §
31.36.
('88 Code, § 35.21) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-1-88; Am. Ord. 1995-14, passed 11-6-
95; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-2-12; Am.
Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 35.22 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEFS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the offices of Assistant Fire Chiefs. There
shall be not more than two Assistant Fire Chiefs. The Fire Chief may recommend
for appointment up to two Assistant Fire Chiefs, which may be volunteers, or
full-time or part-time positions if provided in the pay and classification
plan.
   (B)   Appointment. Each Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council; and may be removed by the Mayor at will.
The Fire Chief shall make a recommendation for appointment of each Assistant
Fire Chief, but the Mayor shall not be obligated to accept this recommendation
and may appoint, or continue the appointment, of any person qualified as
provided in this section.
   (C)   Qualifications. Any Assistant Chief shall:
      (1)   Be graduated from high school;
      (2)   Have had at least five years' experience at the rank of Fire
Lieutenant or higher;
      (3)   Have had at least ten years of prior experience as a firefighter,
EMT, or paramedic;
      (4)   Be a state-certified firefighter and state-certified EMT; and
      (5)   Submit to and successfully pass a medical examination conducted by
a licensed physician approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Assistant Fire Chiefs may, as provided and
delegated by the Fire Chief, act as Fire Chief in the absence of the Fire
Chief, and have such other duties as are delegated by the Fire Chief.
   (E)   Compensation.  The compensation of any full- or part-time Assistant
Fire Chief shall be established by the City Council in the pay and
classification plan.
('88 Code, § 35.22) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-1-88; Am. Ord. 1995-05, passed 6-5-
95; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-2-12; Am.
Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2015-18, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord. 2022-
05, passed 5-2-22)
§ 35.23 AUTHORITY IN ABSENCE OF FIRE CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the highest ranking member of the Fire
Department available in person or by telephone contact shall have full
authority to exercise any and all of the powers granted to the Fire Chief by
this subchapter, with the exception of the powers granted by §
35.25.
('88 Code, § 35.23) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13)
§ 35.24 [RESERVED].
Ed. Note:
   Section 35.24 regarding Social Officers repealed by Ordinance 2022-05,
adopted May 2, 2022.
§ 35.25 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT.
   All volunteer officers (operations, company or otherwise except social
officers, but not including Assistant Fire Chiefs) and volunteer members of the
Fire Department shall be appointed by the Fire Chief. All volunteer members and
officers of the Fire Department must either be residents of or employed in the
county or be able to respond to a sufficient number of emergencies within five
minutes of being notified of an emergency, and must be at least 18 years of
age. When qualified, any volunteer officer or member may elect to respond to
fire runs only, to respond to EMS runs only, or to respond to both fire and EMS
runs.
('88 Code, § 35.25) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-22)
§ 35.26 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   All applicants for membership in the Fire Department, after being accepted
by the Fire Chief, shall successfully complete status review periods at three,
six, nine, and 12 month intervals and successfully complete Job Performance
Standards.
('88 Code, § 35.26) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-22)
§ 35.27 STIPEND.
   A stipend shall be paid to eligible volunteers who are not employees of the
Fort Mitchell Fire Department in accordance with the following schedule:
   (A)   An amount of $15 per person per run completed by that person. In
addition to the foregoing, a training stipend of $5 will be paid to each member
who attends and remains for the duration of any approved in-house Fire
Department drill training sessions. To be eligible for the stipend volunteer
personnel must have a minimum of 12 hours of training per quarter, be actively
making response runs and conduct a minimum of 24 hours of station time per
month.
   (B)   Volunteer fire and EMS shifts at the firehouse will receive $2 for
reach hour of station time, the minimum shift shall be six hours.
   (C)   A stipend of $500 per person, per year shall be paid to each of the
volunteer Assistant Fire Chiefs of the Fort Mitchell Fire Department on a $125
per quarter basis: provided, however, that this sum shall not be paid if the
volunteer Assistant Fire Chief does not attend at least 50% of the weekly
drill/training sessions for the previous quarter as well as at least 25% of the
fire/EMS calls that require a Chief or Assistant Chief for the previous quarter
as determined by the Fire Chief. In the event that any volunteer Assistant Fire
Chief is ineligible for the stipend as provided in this section, he or she
shall also be ineligible to possess any take-home vehicle issued by the city
during the period of such ineligibility.
('88 Code, § 35.27) (Ord. 2000-16, passed 11-20-00; Am. Ord. 2002-18, passed
11-4-02; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2006-12, passed 11-20-06
Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord.
2013-31, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 2022-05,
passed 5-2-22)
§ 35.28 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.
   All volunteer members of the Fire Department may be suspended or discharged
from the Department by the Fire Chief at any time he may deem the action
necessary in the best interest of the Department. However, any member so
suspended or discharged by the Fire Chief may appeal to the City Administrative
Officer, or in the absence of the City Administrative Officer, the Mayor, in
writing, within seven days of the action, by filing such request with the City
Clerk, for a hearing and final determination.
('88 Code, § 35.28) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2012-03,
passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-
22)
§ 35.29 [RESERVED]
§ 35.30 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall use any fire apparatus or
equipment for any private purpose, nor shall any person, willfully and without
proper authority, remove, take away, keep or conceal any tool, appliance or
other articles used in any way by the Fire Department.
   (B)   The City Council may also provide each member of the Fire Department
with certain personal equipment (pagers, fire gear, helmet, boots, and the
like). That member shall be responsible for the safe-keeping of said equipment
and shall return all such equipment to the Fire Department upon the termination
of that person as a member of the Fire Department. It shall be the
responsibility of the Fire Chief to insure that accurate inventory records are
kept of all such equipment that would clearly indicate the complete information
of all such equipment and to whom each piece of equipment has been assigned.
('88 Code, § 35.30) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2006-12,
passed 11-20-06; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-
2-22)
§ 35.31 TRAINING.
   The Fire Chief or designated training officer shall schedule sufficient
training for the Fire Department.
('88 Code, § 35.31) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-22)
§ 35.32 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY; CHARGES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief is authorized, under proper emergency, to send or cause
to be sent, when needed, any and all apparatus and/or equipment of the Fire
Department to any point within the county, or to any county within the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, when an emergency requires such action, and to any
adjoining county for training or other purposes of goodwill.
   (B)   When the fire apparatus is being operated or when the EMS equipment
has been dispatched under the mutual aid system, as directed by Northern
Kentucky Firefighter's Association and/or the Kenton County Fire Chiefs
Association, there shall be no charge for answering calls to the points.
   (C)   Individual calls to points to answer fire or EMS calls, whether within
an incorporated area or in an unincorporated area, not covered by prior
agreement with that area or city, shall be subject to a charge of $300 per hour
or any part thereof for each piece of fire apparatus so used. EMS charges shall
be in addition to the individual charges for service already in place for EMS
service. The property owner for whose benefit the fire apparatus is called
shall be responsible for this charge.
('88 Code, § 35.32) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on the use of fire apparatus outside city limits, see KRS
95.830
§ 35.33 LIGHTS AND SIRENS ON PRIVATE VEHICLES.
   Members of the Fire Department may not equip their vehicles with any lights
or sirens.
('88 Code, § 35.33) (Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2013-11,
passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-2-22)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.65 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Police Department for the city to
consist of a Police Chief and a number of police officers as shall be necessary
to provide for the protection of the city and its citizens, this number of
police officers to be in the sound discretion of the City Council.
('88 Code, § 35.70) (Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-3-72; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-
13)
§ 35.66 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall be appointed, be qualified, and have the powers and
duties set forth in §
31.35.
('88 Code, § 35.77) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
Cross-reference:
   Members; rank and title, see §
35.67
   Qualifications for appointment, see §
35.69
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the powers and duties of Police Chief, see KRS
95.019
§ 35.67 MEMBERS; RANK AND TITLE.
   Members of the Police Department shall hold one of the following ranks and
titles only: Police Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Detective, Police
Specialist, Police Officer Grade I, Police Officer Grade II, or Police Recruit.
('88 Code, § 35.71) (Ord. 1978-12, passed 6-19-78; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 35.68 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of
City Council as provided in KRS 83A.080.
   (B)   All other police officers shall be appointed by the Mayor at will.
   (C)   Every member of the police force shall take an oath to faithfully
perform the duties of his office, that he possesses the required qualifications
and that he will not interfere in any election.
('88 Code, § 35.72) (Ord. 1946-12, passed 12-4-46; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 35.69 QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   General qualifications. To be eligible for appointment as a member in
any grade within the Police Department, a person must be a resident of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, must be at least 21 years of age, able to read and
write the English language intelligibly, must be a high school graduate or hold
an equivalent certificate, and must be sober, moral and sagacious. No person
who has been convicted of a felony shall be eligible for appointment.
   (B)   Qualifications and duties of the police Captain.
      (1)   Qualifications. The police Captain shall:
         (a)   Possess a bachelor’s degree in police science, criminal justice,
management, business administration, public administration, or a related field
from an accredited college or university; and
         (b)   Have at least 12 years’ prior Kentucky-certified police
experience, with at least seven years at the supervisory (Sergeant or above)
level, and at least two years at the administrative level (Lieutenant or
above).
      (2)   Duties. The police Captain shall perform and be responsible for the
following duties. The police Captain shall:
         (a)   Be second in command of the Police Department, subject to the
command and direction of the Police Chief;
         (b)   Perform the duties of Police Chief in the absence of the Police
Chief;
         (c)   Perform such duties as are assigned by the Police Chief.
   (C)   Qualifications of the police Lieutenant. The police Lieutenant shall:
      (1)   Have at least 12 years’ prior Kentucky-certified police experience;
      (2)   Have had at least three years’ prior police experience at the
supervisory level (Sergeant or higher); and
      (3)   Either:
         (a)   Possess an associate’s or bachelor’s degree from an accredited
college or university; or
         (b)   Have four years’ military experience and 30 credit hours of
college coursework from an accredited college or university.
   (D)   Qualification of the police Sergeant. The police Sergeant shall have
at least seven years of prior Kentucky-certified police experience.
   (E)   Qualifications of the police Detective. The police Detective shall
have at least five years of prior Kentucky-certified police experience, and
shall have specialized training or experience in investigations.
   (F)   Qualifications of the Police Specialist. The Police Specialist shall
have at least 12 years’ prior Kentucky-certified police experience, and shall
have and maintain current specialized training in one of the following fields:
      (1)   Investigations;
      (2)   Narcotic or drug enforcement;
      (3)   Accident reconstruction;
      (4)   K-9:
      (5)   Community outreach or DARE;
      (6)   SWAT; or
      (7)   Such other areas as may be approved by the Chief of Police. As an
alternative to specialty training, 20 years of prior Kentucky-certified police
experience may be substituted for specialty training, The Chief of Police shall
make recommendations for appointment to the Mayor for qualified members deemed
suitable for appointment.
   (G)   Qualifications of the Police Officer Grade I. The Police Officer Grade
1 shall have at least six years’ prior Kentucky-certified police experience,
and shall be recommended for appointment by the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Qualifications of the Police Officer Grade II. The Police Officer
Grade II shall be a member of the Police Department who has at least nine
months’ prior Kentucky-certified police experience, and has fulfilled the
minimum training requirements prescribed by the Kentucky Department of Criminal
Justice Training, and shall be a Kentucky-certified police officer.
   (I)   Status of a Police Recruit. A Police Recruit is a person who has been
hired as a police officer of the city who has not met the requirements for
Police Officer Grade II.
('88 Code, § 35.73) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
§ 35.70 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   All members of the Police Department, including the Police Chief, shall have
and perform the duties required of them and have the powers conferred upon them
by state law, as amended or altered from time to time.
('88 Code, § 35.76) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the powers of police officers, see KRS 95.019
§ 35.71 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Police Chief and members of the Police Department shall be subject to
removal from office by the Mayor at will, except as tenure and terms of
employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract. The procedures for
removal shall be those prescribed by state law, as amended or revised from time
to time.
('88 Code, § 35.74) (Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning police officers' Bill of Rights, see KRS 15.520
§ 35.72 MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
   The age of retirement for members of the Police Department and any paid
member of the Fire Department shall be when the member reaches his 65th
birthday. Furthermore, every member of the Police Department or paid member of
the Fire Department, over the age of 55, shall obtain, for continuation of
employment, a certification from his or her physician, at least once per
calendar year, that he or she is fit for active law enforcement or fire
service, as appropriate. All members of either Department shall retire at the
age of retirement set forth herein and may no longer be appointed or serve as a
member of the Police or Fire Department after reaching age of retirement set
forth herein.
('88 Code, § 35.75) (Ord. 1974-28, passed 12-16-74; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-
10-13)
TREE COMMISSION
§ 35.85 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Tree Commission for the city is hereby created and established. The
Commission shall consist of members who shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Council.
('88 Code, § 35.90) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed -
-22)
§ 35.86 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.
   CITY TREE. Any tree on city property or in the public right-of-way.
   TREE COMMISSION. The Tree Commis-sion of the city.
('88 Code, § 35.91) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed -
-22)
§ 35.87 MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Members of the Tree Commission shall serve a three-year term except as
provided herein for the initial Tree Commission. The Tree Commission shall
consist of not less than seven nor more than 15 members as from time to time
appointed by the Mayor. The initial Tree Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor so that as nearly as possible one-third of the members shall be appointed
for a term of one year, one-third of the members shall be appointed for a term
of two years and one-third of the members shall be appointed for a term of
three years. Members of the Tree Commission shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   Any vacancy arising by reason of death, resignation or removal of any
member of the Tree Commission shall be filled in the manner provided under §
35.87 for the unexpired term of the member. Members of the Tree Commission
serve at the Mayor's pleasure, and he may remove a member for any reason
including, but not limited to, inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or
conflict of interest.
('88 Code, § 35.92) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed - -22)
§ 35.88 ELECTION; MEETINGS.
   The Tree Commission shall organize within 30 days, after the appointment of
its initial total membership, for the purpose of adopting by-laws. The
Commission shall annually elect a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary, each
of whom shall be eligible for re-election at the Commission's first meeting
annually. The Tree Commission shall meet at least once quarterly; the exact
time and date of the quarterly meeting may be determined at the discretion of
the Commission.
('88 Code, § 35.93) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed -
-22)
§ 35.89 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Tree Commission shall be charged with management, protection and care of
the city trees. The powers and duties of the Tree Commission shall include:
   (A)   Provide public promotion, education and leadership in facilitating
public awareness of tree conservation, protection and planting.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall prepare and submit a list of trees suitable
for planting in the public rights-of-way to the City Administrator, or his
designee. The Commission may be consulted regarding selection, location and
planting of trees on city property or in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   The Tree Commission shall bring to the attention of the City
Administrator, or his designee, any city tree that poses a threat to public
safety when the tree is dead or dying and its presence would cause a hardship
or endanger the public or an adjoining property owner. The Commission shall
also notify the city when a city tree is diseased or infested so as to be a
hazard to other trees within the city.
   (D)   The Tree Commission shall have such other duties as the City Council
of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, shall from time to time delegate to it by ordinance
or the Mayor shall from time to time authorize by executive order.
('88 Code, § 35.94) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed -
-22)
§ 35.90 NOTIFICATION OF COMMISSION.
   The Tree Commission shall be advised prior to the commencement of any major
construction of sidewalks or opening, curbing or paving of any street within
the city. The Commission may then advise the city or other party performing the
work how to proceed, to the extent practicable, causing the least damage or
injury to trees and to preserve a maximum number of trees as practical to the
construction or improvement involved. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit or impede the construction, maintenance or operation of
any public improvement or utility. The Tree Commission need not be notified of
minor repair and replacement activities which do not pose a significant risk of
damage to city trees.
('88 Code, § 35.95) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 10-21-91; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed -
-22)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 93
   Trees and Shrubs, see
Chapter 94
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
   
36.01   Equal employment policy
   
36.02   Personnel Pay Classification Plan
   
36.03   Participation in County Employees Retirement System
   
36.04   General employment qualifications
§ 36.01 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   The city is an equal employment opportunity employer. Neither the city as an
organization, nor any official or employee thereof shall discriminate against
any person because of race, color, creed, sex, age, marital status or handicap,
where discrimination against handicap status involves a federally funded
program. In the process of filling vacancies, officials shall make every
reasonable effort to affirmatively recruit members of minority groups, women
and persons who, though handicapped, are qualified for the type of employment
available.
(Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-97)
§ 36.02 PERSONNEL PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   Annual and hourly salary ranges for employees under the Personnel and
Pay Classification Plan for the city as set forth in Ordinance 1998-7 and all
subsequent legislation amendatory thereto, which are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into the Code of ordinances as if set out in their
entirety.
   (B)   Copies of the legislation adopted herein are available for public
inspection during normal business hours at the office of the City Clerk.
('88 Code, § 36.15)
§ 36.03 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System effect August 1, 1994, and that all eligible regular full-
time officers and employees of the city are hereby authorized and directed to
comply with the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All employees whose duties require an average of 100 hours during each
working month be considered as “regular full-time” employees for county
requirement purposes, except those employees excluded as shown below, which may
participate in the system separately and those other persons who are employed
as “temporary”, “part-time” and “seasonal” workers, as defined in KRS 78.510
(21) of the County Employees Retirement Laws.
   (C)   The city intends to include the police and firefighters under the
hazardous duty coverage of the County Employees Retirement System.
   (D)   The city shall make no further payments into the city's existing
retirement plan for any new employees hired on or after August 1, 1994, or for
any existing employee who elects to join the County Employees Retirement
System.
(Ord. 1994-6, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 1994-8, passed 7-18-94)
§ 36.04 GENERAL EMPLOYMENT QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No employee or volunteer firefighter who:
      (1)   Resigned or retired from employment or volunteer status from this
or any other city (a) with disciplinary charges pending or threatened, (b) with
disciplinary charges filed with the City Clerk or other appropriate authority
and not dismissed or adjudicated by competent authority, or (c) in lieu of
discipline being imposed; or
      (2)   Resigned or retired with one or more disciplinary suspensions of
greater than two days imposed upon the employee; or
      (3)   Was dismissed from employment or from the volunteer fire department
for cause;
shall be eligible for reappointment or appointment, to any position of
employment, full-time or part-time, with the city, without at least ten years
having passed since the later of the date of dismissal, resignation, or
retirement, as well as at least 30 days advance notice of such appointment to
the City Council prior to such appointment, and full disclosure of the
particular employee's full employment file, including disciplinary actions, to
the City Council in executive session.
   (B)   (1)   Disciplinary charges are PENDING or THREATENED within the
meaning of this section, if any of the following occur:
         (a)   A police officer is asked to provide a written statement of an
incident under KRS 15.520, and the matter is not fully adjudicated;
         (b)   An employee is interviewed or asked to provide a statement by a
competent authority or law enforcement officer concerning an incident that may
lead to charges, and no determination has been made not to pursue further
action; or
         (c)   Charges are filed or a complaint is lodged by any person, and
without such charges having been adjudicated by a competent authority.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, any employee may inquire, at or
immediately prior to the time of resignation or retirement, whether
disciplinary charges are pending or threatened.
   (C)   No suspension without pay, filed, threatened or pending disciplinary
charge, or dismissal for cause shall be removed from any employee file until at
least ten years have passed since the action, and then only in accordance with
Kentucky records retention and other law. The City Clerk shall compile and
maintain a list of ineligible persons during the period of such ineligibility.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-10-13)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
37.01   Title
   
37.02   Findings
   
37.03   Purpose and authority
   
37.04   Definitions
   
37.05   Standards of conflict
   
37.06   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
37.07   Receipt of gifts
   
37.08   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
37.09   Misuse of confidential information
   
37.10   Honoraria
   
37.11   Financial disclosure
   
37.12   Financial interest statement form; maintenance
   
37.13   Noncompliance with filing requirement; contents
   
37.14   Nepotism prohibited
   
37.15   Board of Ethics established
   
37.16   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
37.17   Notice of hearing
   
37.18   Hearing procedure
   
37.19   Appeals
   
37.20   Limitation of actions
   
37.21   Advisory opinions
   
37.22   Reprisals
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Fort Mitchell
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Fort Mitchell Board of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CITY. The City of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation or
other entity created by this city, either individually or jointly with any
other unit of local government.
   CONTRACT. Any agreement for the sale, lease or purchase of any interest in
any real or personal property or the provision of any service.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, and whether full-time or
part-time, who is an elected or appointed officer of the city, or who is a
member of the governing board of any city agency and who is appointed by the
city to the governing board. The Mayor, a legislative body member, the City
Clerk, the City Administrator and any person who occupies a non-elected office
created pursuant to KRS 83A.080 shall be deemed an officer.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.05 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   Every officer and employee of the city and of every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer, employee or any immediate family member of any officer or
employee, shall have a financial interest in a business or engage in any
business, transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the
proper discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   Every officer or employee who has a financial interest which the
officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected by his or
her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the scope of his
or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature of the interest to the
governing body of the city or city agency served by the officer or employee,
and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the proceedings
of the governing body.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.06 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for City office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or agency. However, if any contract
entered into by a city or agency officer or employee before he or she became a
candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is renewable
after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or is hired
as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall apply to the
renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract unless the requirements set forth in division (3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.07 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
in the form of cash or legal tender, under circumstances in which it could
reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence or could
reasonably be expected to influence the officer or employee in the performance
of his or her public duties. Additionally, this provision shall not apply to
political contributions received by candidates or elected officials as part of
their campaign.
   (B)   As to gifts other than in the form of cash or legal tender, no officer
or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or indirectly through
any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair market
value of more than $250 whether in the form of service, loan, travel,
entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer
or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1998-14, passed 8-17-98; Am. Ord. 2004-
03, passed 4-19-04)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.08 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the private
use of any person, unless the use is specifically authorized by the Mayor or by
written city policy.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.09 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. 
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose confidential information acquired in the course or his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.10 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with
the city.
   (B) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.11 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Who must file. All candidates for city elective offices and elected
officials of the city shall file an annual statement of financial interests
with the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   When to file statements; amended statements.
      (1)   (a)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this
section shall be filed with the Board of Ethics by filing with the City Clerk
no later than 4:00 p.m., March 1, 1995.
         (b)   All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed
in the same manner no later than 4:00 p.m. on March 1 each year, provided that
a person newly-appointed to fill an elective office with the city shall file
his or her initial statement no later than 60 days after the date of the
appointment. A candidate for a city elective office who has not earlier filed a
statement in the same calendar year in which the election shall occur shall
file his or her initial statement no later than 30 days after the filing
deadline date for the elected city office.
      (2)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
      (3)   In the event there is a material change in any information
contained in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board of
Ethics, the elected official or candidate for elective City office filing the
financial statement shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1996-9, passed 7-15-96)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.12 FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT FORM; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Form of the statement of financial interests.
      (1)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on form(s)
prescribed by the legislative body of the city by municipal order.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall deliver a copy of the form by first class mail
or hand delivery, to each elected official no later than January 15th of each
year and to each candidate for a city elective office no later than 15 days
after the filing deadline date for the elected city office. The failure of the
City Clerk to deliver a copy of the form to any person required to file the
statement shall not relieve the person of the obligation to file the statement.
   (B)   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall be the “official custodian” of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the City Clerk as public documents, available for public
inspection immediately upon filing.
      (2)   Unless a longer or shorter time is otherwise prescribed by
applicable law, a statement of financial interests shall be retained by the
City Clerk, for a period of five years after filing, provided that upon the
expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an elected official of
the city or upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elective city office was not elected or nominated, the City Clerk
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1996-9, passed 7-15-96)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.13 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Contents of the financial interests statement.
      (1)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
         (a) The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer.
         (b) The title of the filer's office with the city.
         (c)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
         (d)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
and the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.). The filer may, but shall not be
required to, include sources of income as identified herein which do not exceed
$5,000 during the preceding calendar year.
         (e)   The name and address of any business that has engaged in any
business transactions with the city during the past three years, or which is
anticipated to engage in any business transactions with the city, in which the
filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time during the
preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership interest or more.
         (f) A designation as commercial, residential or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more.
         (g) Each source by name and address of a gift or honorarium having a
fair market value of $100 or more, excluding gifts received from family
members, received by the filer during the preceding calendar year.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any filer to
disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual clients or
customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
   (B)   Noncompliance with filing requirement.
      (1)   The City Clerk at the direction of the Board of Ethics shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed. The
notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date
by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the
person of the penalties for a violation.
      (2)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails
or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of
Ethics in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine
of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics under this section may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.14 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall employ,
appoint, promote, transfer or advance his/her family member to an office or
position of compensated employment with the city or a city agency unless the
employment appointment, promotion, transfer or advancement is approved by
action of the City Council.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall directly
supervise or manage the work of a family member of the officer or employee who
is compensated by the city or city agency for the work unless the supervision
or management is approved by action of the City Council.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.15 BOARD OF ETHICS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The
initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or
appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with
the city or any city agency.
         (b)   The members shall serve for a term of three years, except that
with respect to the members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed
for a term of one year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years
and two members shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three years.
         (c)   The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of
their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of
local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
         (d)   Any member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor
for misconduct, inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of
the Board of Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall
be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the City Council and the City
Council may by vote approve or rescind the removal of the member.
      (3)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not
filled by the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (5)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter as the first order of business in the first
meeting of each calendar year, elect a chairperson and a vice-chairperson from
among the membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full
voting member of the Board of Ethics. The vice-chairperson shall preside in the
absence of the chairperson.
      (6)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon
the call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the
members.
      (7)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
of Ethics shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself
or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
      (8)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics
and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board of Ethics shall
be recorded in the minutes.
   (B)   The city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or by
contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons subject to its jurisdiction to submit in writing and under
oath reports and answers to questions that are relevant to the proceedings and
to authorize testimony to be taken by deposition before any individual
designated by the Board of Ethics who has the power to administer oaths.
      (3) To administer oaths.
      (4) To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor of the city, or to the City Council if the violation involves a member of
the body, the governing body of any city agency, the County Attorney or other
appropriate person or body, as necessary.
      (5) To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (6) To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
      (7)   To insure the control and maintenance of all statements of
financial interests that are required to be filed by this chapter and to insure
that the statements are available for public inspection in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
      (8)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Council of the city.
      (9)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1999-16, passed 10-18-99)
§ 37.16 FILING AND INVESTIGATIONS OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be filed with the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge
receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Board of Ethics shall forward within ten working days from the
date of receipt of a complaint to each officer or employee of the city or city
agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the complaint and a
general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board of Ethics shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   To the extent permitted by the Kentucky Open Meetings Act and the
Kentucky Open Records Act, all proceedings and records relating to a
preliminary inquiry being conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be
confidential until a final determination is made by the Board of Ethics,
except:
      (1)   The Board of Ethics may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or
County Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the alleged violator, and only the alleged violator, publicly
discloses the existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board of Ethics may
publicly confirm the existence of the inquiry, and only the existence of the
inquiry.
   (D)   The Board of Ethics shall make a determination based on its
preliminary inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if
so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of
this chapter. If the Board of Ethics concludes that the complaint is outside of
its jurisdiction, frivolous or without minimal factual basis, the Board of
Ethics shall immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to
writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the complainant and to all
officers or employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board of Ethics shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the
complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in City government issue, in writing, a reprimand to the officer or employee
concerning the alleged violation and shall provide a copy of the reprimand to
the Mayor and members of the governing body of the city or city agency, which
reprimand shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by the Kentucky
Open Records Act.
      (2)   Proceed with a formal hearing.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board of Ethics a false
complaint alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer
or employee of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.17 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a formal hearing regarding
allegations contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board of Ethics shall
issue an order setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the
order is issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board of
Ethics consents to a later date. The order setting the matter for hearing,
along with a copy of any pertinent regulations of the Board of Ethics relating
to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the
time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.18 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board of
Ethics so as to afford all parties the range of due process rights required by
the nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board of Ethics in connection
with the matter to be heard. The Board of Ethics shall inform the alleged
violator, or his or her representative, of any exculpatory evidence it has in
its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board of Ethics hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board of Ethics,
with or without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse matter, or
may file a written statement regarding the adverse matter for incorporation
into the record of the proceeding.
   (E)   Unless otherwise required by the Kentucky Open Meetings Act, all
hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be in closed executive session in
accordance with KRS 61.810 unless the alleged violator requests that the
hearings be public.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable and to the extent permitted by the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act, conduct deliberations in closed executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this ordinance has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board of Ethics shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board of Ethics concludes in its report that no violation of
this chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint. If the Board of Ethics concludes in
its report that in consideration of the evidence produced at the hearing there
is clear and convincing proof of a violation of this chapter, the Board of
Ethics may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and governing body of the city or
city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend, to the Mayor and the governing body of the
city or city agency with which the violator serves, that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board of Ethics, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.19 APPEALS. 
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
Kenton County within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board of Ethics. The
Board of Ethics shall transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence
considered by the Board of Ethics at the public hearing.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.20 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within three years
after the violation occurred.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.21 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, and shall render an advisory opinion
when requested by any officer or employee of the city or a city agency who is
covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
to the extent permitted by the Kentucky Open Records Act shall remain
confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the requestor.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics may adopt regulations, consistent with the
Kentucky Open Records Act, to establish criteria under which it will issue
confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public
documents.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board of Ethics, if the
person who requested the opinion makes or purports to make public the substance
or any portion of an advisory opinion requested by or on behalf of the person.
The Board of Ethics may vote to make public the advisory opinion request and
related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board of Ethics shall be
binding on the Board of Ethics in any subsequent proceeding concerning the
facts and circumstances of the particular case if no intervening facts or
circumstances arise which would change the opinion of the Board of Ethics if
they had existed at the time the opinion was rendered. However, if any fact
determined by the Board of Ethics to be material was omitted or misstated in
the request for an opinion, the Board of Ethics shall not be bound by the
opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board of Ethics shall be
admissible in the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for
violations of this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
§ 37.22 REPRISALS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board of Ethics to
have realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the Mayor, or by any other officer or agency having the power of removal or
discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a
violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the
Commonwealth.
   (D)   The provisions of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section shall not
be applicable to violations for which the Board of Ethics has acted under the
provisions of § 37.16.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 12-5-94)
CHAPTER 38: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
38.01   Purchasing procedures; disposition of surplus property
§ 38.01 PURCHASING PROCEDURES; DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   Subject to disapproval of the City Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures for the purchasing or acquisition by the city of supplies, equipment
and services, and for the disposition of surplus property of the city.
('88 Code, § 37.01)
CHAPTER 39: TAXATION
Section
   
39.01   County assessment adopted
   
39.02   Due date
   
39.03   Delinquency
   
39.04   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
39.05   Road tax
   
39.06   Park tax
§ 39.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Kenton County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
('88 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 5-9-84)
§ 39.02 DUE DATE.
   All ad valorem taxes shall become due and payable on or before October 31.
('88 Code, § 38.02)
§ 39.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The current property owner is liable to pay any current or delinquent
property taxes. All city ad valorem taxes shall become delinquent on November 1
following their due date be due October 31. If in the event October 31 falls on
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in which the city building is closed, then
such taxes shall be due and payable on the next regular business day
immediately after October 31, and shall become delinquent the day immediately
following such regular business day.
   (B)   There will be a grace period until November 30 with no penalty and
interest. Taxes paid during the first three days after they become delinquent
will be assessed a 1% penalty after the November 30 grace period shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear 12% interest per annum (1% per
month) on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all
costs and expenses incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of
the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   If the payment of ad valorem taxes is delivered by the United States
mail to the City Clerk, the date of the United States postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of payment.
('88 Code, § 38.03)
   (D)   If a property owner is unable to pay the full amount of the current
year property tax bill by the grace period due to financial hardship, the
property owner may apply for a payment plan of ten monthly payments. The
affidavit for a hardship payment plan must be completed, signed and turned in
with supporting documentation. If a hardship affidavit is completed and a
payment plan contract is signed, then penalty and interest will be calculated
as if payments were made on the date of the signed contract. Each property
owner (includes joint ownership) is limited to three annual hardship payment
plans.
(Ord. 1976-5, passed 3-15-76; Am. Ord. 1996-1, passed 3-4-96; Am. Ord. 1999-14,
passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. 2017-16, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed - -
20)
§ 39.04 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   Tax rate. There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as
defined in KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for
the 1996 tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of
0.025% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by financial
institutions.
   (B)   Collection during first year. For transition purposes, the 1996 tax
year will be treated differently in terms of collection of taxes than all
subsequent years. For the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby
established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than May 1, 1997.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997,
or without the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (C)   Collection during subsequent years. For all tax years subsequent to
the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (D)   Lien. The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to
all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   Delinquency. All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are
not paid before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1997, or which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and shall
be subject to a penalty of 10%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 2% per
annum.
   (F)   Tax use. All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 39.05 ROAD TAX.
   There is hereby established a special ad valorem tax annually at the rate of
$0.06 on each $100 of assessed valuation upon all taxable property within the
city in order to provide funding for the maintenance, repair, overlay and
replacement of public streets and roads in the city which have been accepted by
the city for maintenance, and including the widening thereof and the repair,
maintenance and addition of curbs, gutters and catch basins.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed 11-21-88)
§ 39.06 PARK TAX.
   There is hereby established a tax of $0.02 on each $100 of assessed
valuation of property in the city for the purpose of purchasing and maintaining
public parks.
(Ord. 1975-18, passed 6-16-75; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed - -20; Am. Ord. 2021-
07, passed 8-23-21; Am. Ord. 2022-14, passed 8-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-12, passed
8-28-23; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed 8-12-24)
CHAPTER 40: DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS
Section
   
40.01   Adoption of procedures
   
40.02   Administration
   
40.03   Amendment
   
40.04   Procedures
§ 40.01 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.
   The procedures set forth in § 40.04 shall be the “grievance procedures” for
anyone who believes he has been discriminated against by the city based on
handicapped status with respect to federally funded programs.
('88 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 1984-16, passed 10-15-84)
§ 40.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the City Administrative Officer,
subject to the executive authority of the Mayor.
('88 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 1984-16, passed 10-15-84)
§ 40.03 AMENDMENT.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
('88 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 1984-16, passed 10-15-84)
§ 40.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A) Any person who believes that he has been subjected to discrimination as
prohibited by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, may personally or by a
representative, file a complaint with the office of the City Administrative
Officer. A person who has not personally been subjected to discrimination may
also file a complaint.
   (B) When any person who believes he has been adversely effected by an act or
decision by the city, and that the act or decision was based on handicapped
status, shall have the right to process a complaint or grievance in accordance
with the following procedure:
      (1)   Step One. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the City Administrative Officer setting forth the nature of the discrimination
alleged and facts upon which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step Two. The City Administrative Officer shall contact the
complainant no later than 15 days after receiving the written statement to
establish an informal meeting with the objective of resolving the matter
informally. However, in no case shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner
than five days nor more than 45 days after receiving the written statement.
There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at the
informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step Three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the City Administrative Officer or the decision of the City
Administrative Officer does not satisfy the complainant, he may request a
hearing with the City Council by submitting a written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step Four. In discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the
discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the
discussion of the grievance when it is brought before the Council. The Council
shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and the decision
shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local level. There
shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion at the hearing, which
shall be preserved in the records of the city.
('88 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 1984-16, passed 10-15-84; Am. Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-
29-01)
CHAPTER 41: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
41.01   Definitions
   
41.02   Powers, creation, and membership
   
41.03   Board membership
   
41.04   Meetings; organization of the Board
   
41.05   Conflict of interest
   
41.06   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
41.07   Enforcement proceedings
   
41.08   Hearing, notice and final order
   
41.09   Presentation of cases
   
41.10   Appeals
   
41.11   Ordinance civil fine schedule
   
41.12   Liens, fines, charges and fees
   
41.13   Civil remedies
   
41.14   State statutes adopted by reference
   
41.15   Lienholder notification system
   
41.16   Liens
   
41.17   Immediate action
§ 41.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing; all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the code enforcement board following a hearing in
accordance with §
41.08(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
41.07(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
41.08(C).
   IMMINENT BANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.02 POWERS, CREATION, AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior
to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout the term in
office.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.03 BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The terms of the members and alternate members of the Board shall be
for three years.
   (C)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular-members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Membership requirements, vacancies, removal and oaths of members shall
be as required by statute. Board members must take the oath of office
prescribed in Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   The City Council may provide compensation, reimbursement for expenses
and education of members as it may, from time to time, order.
   (H)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (I)   No member of the Board may hold any elected or non-elected office,
paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.04 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
pursuant to a schedule established by the board. Meetings other than those
regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in
accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
      (2)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   Organization of the Board.
      (1)   The Board shall elect a chairperson from its members. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board shall
select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the chair.
      (2)   The presence of at least a majority of the board's entire
membership shall constitute a quorum. An affirmative vote of a majority of a
quorum of the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
      (3)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote
of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the
minutes.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or
personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the nature of the
interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in which he has an
interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.06 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Fort Mitchell Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chanter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.07 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Board shall only be initiated by
the issuance of a citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
41.17, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation. The code
enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed or discovered;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the ordinance number violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to Kenton District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Board and city by delivering a copy of the citation to
the City Administrator's Office.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven
days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil fine or requesting, in
writing, a hearing before the Board to contest the citation. The request for a
hearing shall be delivered to the City Administrator's office. The request
shall include the name and address of the person requesting the hearing so that
the city may notify the person of the hearing. If the person fails to respond
to the citation within seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived
the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be considered final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be
deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and imposing
the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.08 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Board shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the
citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived the right to
appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Board shall, based on the evidence, determine whether a violation
was committed. If it is determined that no violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines that a violation was
committed, an order may be issued upholding the citation. The Board may impose
a fine up to the maximum authorized by ordinance, or require the offender to
remedy a continuing violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.09 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Board following a hearing
conducted pursuant to §
41.08(E) may be made to the Kenton County District Court within 30 days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the Board's order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Board is filed within the time
period set forth in division (A), the Board's order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.11 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city code enforcement
officer and Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division and
in accordance with the citation and the specific ordinance violated shall
apply.
      (1)   Each section violated within a five year period, except for
violations of the chronic nuisance ordinance as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20.
 
   Each Section Violated
First offense           $10
Second offense          $50
Third or higher offense $100
 
      (2)   Each section violated within a five-year period of the chronic
nuisance ordinance as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20.
 
First offense           $100
Second offense          $250
Third offense           $500
Fourth offense          $1,000
Fifth or higher offense $5,000
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
      (1)   Each section violated within a five year period, except for
violations of the chronic nuisance ordinance as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20.
 
Each Section Violated
First offense           $100
Second offense          $300
Third or higher offense $1,000
 
      (2)   Each section violated within a five-year period of the chronic
nuisance ordinance as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20.
 
First offense           $500
Second offense          $1,500
Third offense           $2,500
Fourth offense          $5,000
Fifth or higher offense $10,000
 
   (C)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate finable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense.
Additionally, multiple offenses, whether the same or different offenses, may be
included on a single citation. Any recurring offense after the third offense
shall be considered additional third offenses in the case of offenses other
than those under the chronic nuisance ordinance, as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20. Any recurring offense after the fifth offense shall be considered
additional fifth offenses in the case of offenses under the chronic nuisance
ordinance, as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.12 LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may, pursuant to KRS 65.8835, possess a lien on property
owned by the person found by a final, non-appealable order of the Board or by a
final judgment of a court of law if the Board's decision has been appealed, to
have committed a violation, for all fines assessed forthe violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the Office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment. The lien may be
recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   (C)   Subject to §
41.16, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.13 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the imposition of a lien, the city may institute other civil
action and seek an injunction or monetary damages to enforce its ordinances and
collect the debts arising from the fines imposed by the Board.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.14 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the terms, conditions and procedures of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839
relating to the organization and powers of the Board, enforcement, procedure,
appeals and other matters are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated
herein by reference, as if fully rewritten.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously tiled liens, as
provided in §
41.12, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the [city clerk/ code enforcement staff/ other
designated city officer or employee]:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred:
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D) of
this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the
city website.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
41.15(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
41.15(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary pursuant to §
41.17.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
41.12 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
41.15 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk's Office where the lien is recorded within 35 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
41.12 and
41.15, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously tiled liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
§ 41.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 1-9-17)
 
CHAPTER 42: HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
Section
   
42.01   Mission
   
42.02   Definitions
   
42.03   Human Rights Commission
   
42.04   Unlawful housing practices
   
42.05   Exemptions from unlawful housing practices
   
42.06   Unlawful financial practices
   
42.07   Block busting
   
42.08   Unlawful practice public accommodations
   
42.09   Unlawful practice in connection with employment
   
42.10   General exception
   
42.11   Enforcement procedure
   
42.12   Obstruction and retaliation
 
   
42.99   Penalties
§ 42.01 MISSION.
   The mission of the Fort Mitchell Human Rights Commission is to promote and
protect basic human rights for all people in the community.
   The Fort Mitchell Human Rights Commission shall:
   (A)   Make an organized and concerted effort to foster mutual respect and
understanding between people in the City of Fort Mitchell.
   (B)   Initiate and encourage opportunities to work cooperatively with
elected leaders, business and property owners, civic and community leaders, and
citizens to develop awareness of the importance of welcoming diversity and
fairness.
   (C)   Provide a forum to communicate about diversity and fairness.
   (D)   Receive, investigate and process complaints of discrimination as
indicted herein related to public accommodations, employment and housing
discrimination in the City of Fort Mitchell.
   (E)   Meet, discuss efforts to promote anti-discrimination, and plan and
implement public events, training, workshops, and community activities to fight
discrimination; and, accept gifts or bequests, grants or other financial
contributions to help finance its activities.
   (F)   On behalf of the city, the Commission may enter into a cooperative
working agreement with the Kentucky Commission on Human Rights.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall have the following meanings.
   DISCRIMINATION.  Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other act or practice of differentiation or preference in treatment of a person
or persons, or the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing, or compelling thereof
made unlawful under this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designated or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by an employer, but not including an
individual employed by his or her parents, spouse or child, or an individual
employed to render services as a nurse, domestic or personal companion in the
home of the employer.
   EMPLOYER. A person engaged in an industry affecting commerce who has five or
more employees for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the
current or preceding calendar year, and any agent of that person, excluding the
United States and the Commonwealth of Kentucky or one of its agencies or
corporations or an Indian tribe.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Fort Mitchell or
his/her designee.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years and are being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal
custody of such individual or individuals; or the designee of such parent or
other person having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or
other person. The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, spouse, and children, whether related
by blood, legal guardianship, adoption or marriage.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, banking organization, mortgage company,
insurance company, or other lender to whom application is made for financial
assistance for the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair, maintenance, or improvement of real property, or an individual employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   GENDER IDENTITY. The gender-related identity appearance, or mannerisms or
other gender-related characteristics of a person with or without regard to the
person's designated sex at birth.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Includes improved and unimproved property and means
a building, structure, lot, or part thereof which is used or occupied as the
home or residence of one or more individuals.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, labor unions, joint apprenticeship
committees, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or other legal or commercial
entity; the state, any of its political or civil subdivisions or agencies.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, RESORT OR AMUSEMENT. Any place, building,
facility, store or other establishment, either licensed or unlicensed, which
supplies goods or services to the general public or which solicits or accepts
the patronage or trade of the general public or which is supported directly or
indirectly by government funds; except that a private club is not a PLACE OF
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, RESORT OR AMUSEMENT if its policies are determined by its
members and its facilities or services are available only to its members and
their bona fide guests. PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, RESORT OR AMUSEMENT does
not include a dwelling or rooming or boarding house containing no more than one
room for rent or hire and which is within a building occupied by the proprietor
as his or her residence.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums, and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. An individual, whether
licensed or not, who, on behalf of others, for a fee, commission, salary, or
other valuable consideration, or who, with the intention or expectation of
receiving or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, or
lease real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or who
negotiates or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others such an activity; or
who advertises or holds himself or herself out as engaged in such activities;
or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others a loan secured
by mortgage or other encumbrance upon a transfer of real estate, or who is
engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for
collection of a fee in connection with a
contract whereby he or she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, exchange,
rental, or lease of real estate through its listing in a publication issued
primarily for such purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of
any of these.
   REAL ESTATE OPERATOR. Any individual or combination of individuals, labor
unions, joint apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, trusts, unincorporated
organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or other legal or commercial
entity, the county or any of its agencies, who or that is engaged in the
business of selling, purchasing, exchanging, renting, or leasing real estate,
or the improvements thereon, including options, or that derives income, in
whole or in part, from the sale, purchase, exchange, rental, or lease of real
estate; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. An individual's actual or imputed heterosexuality,
homosexuality or bisexuality.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.03 HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Fort Mitchell Human Rights Commission ("Commission") shall consist
of three members and one alternate.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint members to the Commission subject to the
approval of City Council.
   (C)   The members shall be adults and reside in Fort Mitchell. No elected or
appointed city official shall be a member of the Commission.
   (D)   Of the first three members appointed, one shall be appointed for a
one-year term; one for a two-year term, and one for a three-year term. The
alternate shall be appointed for a three-year term. After the initial
appointment, Commission members shall serve three-year terms.
   (E)   The Commission shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson, and a
secretary/treasurer.
   (F)   The Commission may establish rules and guidelines, including but not
limited to required training for the review and hearing of complaints filed
under this chapter, for how it conducts its business subject to the approval of
Council.
   (G)   The Commission, on behalf of the city, may accept grants and donations
to be used to further its purpose.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.04 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It is hereby unlawful for any person to refuse to sell, lease, and/or
transfer real property or attempt to evict or otherwise treat differently any
person based upon race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the
age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial
status.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply:
   (A)   To the rental of a housing accommodation in a building which contains
housing accommodations for not more than two families living independently of
each other, if the owner or a member of his or her family resides in one of the
housing accommodations:
   (B)   To the rental of a portion of a housing accommodation by the occupant
of the housing accommodation, or by the owner of the housing accommodation if
he or she or a member of his or her family resides therein;
   (C)   To a religious institution, or to an organization operated for
charitable or educational purposes, which is operated, or supervised, or
controlled by a religious corporation, association, society, to the extent that
the religious corporation, association, or society limits, or gives preferences
in, sale, lease, rental, assignment, or sublease of real property to
individuals of the same religion, or makes a selection of buyers, tenants,
lessees, assignees, or sub-lessees, that is calculated by such religious
corporation, association, or society to promote the religious principles for
which it is established or maintained;
   (D)   To the private sale by a private individual homeowner who disposes of
his or her property without the aid of any real estate operator, broker, or
salesperson, and without advertising or public display; or
   (E)   To a real estate operator to require him or her to negotiate with any
individual who has not shown evidence of financial ability to consummate the
purchase or rental of a housing accommodation.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.06 UNLAWFUL FINANCIAL PRACTICES.
   It is an unlawful practice for a financial institution, or an individual
employed by or acting on behalf of a financial institution:
   (A)   To discriminate against a person because of the race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or familial status of the individual or the present or
prospective owner, tenant, or occupant, of the real property or a member,
stockholder, director, officer, employee, or representative of any of these,
and the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing the rates,
terms conditions, privileges, or other provisions of financial assistance or in
the extension of services in connection therewith.
   (B)   To use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or
keep a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial
assistance which indicate directly or indirectly a limitation, specification,
or discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over
the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial
status or an intent to make such a limitation, specification, or
discrimination.
   (C)   To discriminate by refusing to give full recognition, because of sex,
to the income of each spouse or the total income and expenses of both spouses
where both spouses become or are prepared to become joint or several obligators
in real estate transactions.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.07 BLOCK BUSTING.
   It is an unlawful practice for a real estate operator, a real estate broker,
a real estate salesperson, a financial institution, an employee of any of
these, or any other person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate
transaction from which he or she may benefit financially:
   (A)   To represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in the
composition with respect to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age
(over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status of the owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood, or area
in which the real property is located;
   (B)   To represent that this change will or may result in the lowering of
property values, an increase in criminal or anti-social behavior, or a decline
in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property is located; or
   (C)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling
by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or familial status.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.08 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, it is an unlawful practice for a
person to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations of a place of public
accommodation, resort or amusement as defined herein, on the ground of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age 40 and over, disability, sexual
orientation or gender identity.
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful practice to deny any person, because of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40), disability,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status, the full and equal
enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and
accommodations of a restaurant, hotel, motel, or any facility supported
directly or indirectly by government funds.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Restrooms, shower rooms, bath houses and similar facilities which
are in their nature distinctly private;
      (2)   YMCA (by way of example), YWCA and similar type dormitory lodging
facilities;
      (3)   The exemptions contained in the definition of PLACES OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATIONS, RESORT OR AMUSEMENT, herein; or
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, penal or similar facilities, with respect
to any requirement that men and women not be in the same room.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.09 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE IN CONNECTION WITH EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It is prohibited, unlawful practice for an employer or employment
agency:
      (1)   To fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or
otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect to his or her
compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment, because of such
individual's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of
40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status; or
      (2)   To limit, segregate, or classify his or her employees in any way
which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of employment
opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his or her status as an employee
because of such individual's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age
(over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status.
   (B)   It is an unlawful practice for an employment agency to fail or refuse
to refer for employment or otherwise to discriminate against, any individual
because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over
the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial
status, or to classify or refer for employment an individual on the basis of
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40),
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status.
   (C)   It is an unlawful practice for a labor organization:
      (1)   To exclude or to expel from its membership or to otherwise
discriminate against a member or applicant for membership because of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40), disability,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status; or
      (2)   To limit, segregate, or classify its membership, or to classify or
fail or refuse to refer for employment any individual, in any way or manner
which would deprive or tend to deprive an individual of employment
opportunities, or would limit such employment opportunities or otherwise
adversely affect one's status as an employee or as an applicant for employment
because of such individual's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age
(over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status; or
      (3)   To cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against an
individual in violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an unlawful practice for an employer, labor organization, or
joint labor-management committee controlling apprenticeship or other training
or retraining, including on-the-job training programs to discriminate against
any individual because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age
(over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status, in admission to or employment in, any program established to
provide such apprenticeship, training, or retraining.
   (E)   It is an unlawful practice for any employer, labor organization, or
employment agency to print or publish or cause to be printed or published, any
notice or classification or referral for employment by such a labor
organization or classification or limitation, specification or discrimination
based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40),
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status, except
that such a notice or advertisement may indicate a preference, limitation, or
specification, based on religion, national origin, age 40 and over, disability
or sex when religion, national origin, age 40 and over, disability or sex is a
bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent an employer from:
      (1)   Enforcing a written employee dress policy; or
      (2)   Designating appropriate restroom and shower facilities.
   (G)   Employment exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, it shall not be an unlawful practice for:
      (1)   An employer to hire and employ, employees, or an employment agency
to classify or refer for employment an individual, or for a labor organization
to classify its membership or to classify or refer for employment an
individual, or for an employer, labor organization, or joint labor-management
committee controlling apprenticeship or other training or retraining programs
to admit or employ an individual in any such program, on the basis of his or
her religion or national origin in those certain instances where religion or
national origin is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary
to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise;
      (2)   A religious organization, corporation, association, or society to
employ an individual on the basis of his or her religion to perform work
connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, or society of
its religious activity;
      (3)   A school, college, university, or other educational institution to
hire and employ individuals of a particular religion, if the school, college,
university, or other educational institution is in whole or substantial part
owned, supported, controlled, or managed by a particular religion or by a
particular religious corporation, association, or society, or if the curriculum
of the school, college, university, or other educational institution is
directed toward the propagation of a particular religion, and the choice of
employees is determined by such organization to promote the religious
principles for which it is established or maintained; or
      (4)   An employer to apply different standards of compensation, or
different terms, conditions, or privileges of employment pursuant to a bona
fide seniority or merit system, or a system which measures earnings by quantity
or quality of production or to employees who work in different locations, if
the differences are not the result of an intention to discriminate because of
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (over the age of 40),
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or familial status, nor is it
an unlawful practice for an employer to give and to act upon the results of any
professionally developed competency or ability test provided that the test, its
administration or action based upon the test results is not designed, intended
or used to discriminate because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
age (over the age of 40), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.10 GENERAL EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter regarding sexual orientation or gender
identity shall not apply to a religious institution, association, society or
entity or to an organization operated for charitable or educational purposes,
which is owned, operated or controlled by a religious institution, association,
society or entity, except that when such an institution or organization
receives a majority of its annual funding from any federal, state, local or
other governmental body or agency, or any combination thereof, it shall not be
entitled to this exemption.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.11 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   City's relationship with the Kentucky Commissions on Human Rights. In
order to effectuate and enforce the provisions of this chapter, the city may
enter into a cooperative working agreement with the Kentucky Commission on
Human Rights whereby all claims filed with the City Administrator alleging
discrimination in employment, public
accommodations, housing, financial and credit transactions based on race,
color, national origin, religion, age (over 40), familial status and
disability, shall be referred to the Kentucky Commission on Human Rights for
investigation and enforcement in accordance with the Kentucky Civil Rights Act,
KRS Chapter 344 et seq. The city shall reserve to itself the resolution of all
claims of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
   (B)   Filing and processing complaints.
      (1)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a violation of this chapter
may, within 180 days of the alleged violation or one year if the alleged
violation pertains to housing, file a written complaint under oath with the
City Administrator containing the following information:
         (a)   The name and address (if known) of the alleged violator,
("respondent") or facts sufficient to identify such person;
         (b)   An outline of the material facts upon which the complaint is
based;
         (c)   The alleged violation;
         (d)   That any conduct of the complainant was for the purpose of
obtaining housing, employment or public accommodation in question and not for
the purpose of harassment or entrapment of the person against whom the
complaint is made; and
         (e)   That a complaint concerning this same matter has not been filed
with another agency or that any complaint concerning this matter filed with
another agency has been dismissed by such agency without a final judgment on
the merits;
      (2)   Upon receipt of the complaint, the City Administrator shall first
make the following determination, and take the following action:
         (a)   If the complaint alleges discrimination based on race, color,
national origin, religion, sex, age (over 40), familial status or disability,
the complaint shall immediately be referred to the Kentucky Commission on Human
Rights for further processing, investigation and/or administrative proceedings
in accordance with the Kentucky Civil Rights Act, KRS Chapter 344 et seq.; or
         (b)   If the complaint alleges discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity, a copy of the complaint shall be served on the
respondent by certified mail. The respondent shall file a written response to
the complaint within 20 days from the receipt thereof.
   (C)   Investigation - findings and conciliation.
      (1)   If, after investigation, the City Administrator or designee
determines that the matters alleged in the complaint fall outside of the
jurisdiction of the ordinance or there is no probable cause to believe that a
violation has occurred, the City Administrator or designee shall dismiss the
complaint. Written notices of the dismissal shall be served upon the
complainant and respondent by U.S. mail postage prepaid. The notice shall state
that the complainant or his or her designee may file a written request for
reconsideration within ten days of receipt of the notice in accordance with the
provisions set out in KRS 344.200.
      (2)   If, after investigation, the City Administrator or designee
determines that there is probable cause to support the allegations contained in
the complaint, the City Administrator or designee shall endeavor to eliminate
the alleged violation by a conciliation agreement, signed by all parties and
the City Administrator or designee, wherein the alleged violation is eliminated
and the complainant is made whole to the greatest extent practicable.
      (3)   If a settlement is achieved, the City Administrator or designee
shall furnish a copy of a signed conciliation agreement to the complainant and
the respondent. The terms of the conciliation agreement may be made public, but
no other information relating to any complaint, its investigation or its
disposition may be disclosed without consent of the complainant and the person
charged. A conciliation agreement need not contain a declaration or finding
that a violation has in fact occurred and it may provide for dismissal of the
complaint without prejudice. The City Council shall have discretion to approve,
modify or reject the conciliation agreement.
      (4)   If conciliation is not achieved either by agreement between the
parties or approval by the City Council, the City Administrator or designee
shall refer the matter to the Fort Mitchell Human Rights Commission who shall
proceed with a hearing in accordance with the Kentucky Civil Rights Act and KRS
Chapter 13B.
      (5)   No private cause of action shall be created as a result of the City
Administrator's or designee's decision.
      (6)   The City Administrator or designee charged with reviewing and
investigating complaints shall obtain training consistent with the requirements
set by the Fort Mitchell Human Rights Commission as stated hererin. In
investigating complaints, the City Administrator or designee shall act in good
faith with due diligence.
   (D)   Hearing procedures, judicial review and appeals.
      (1)   The Commission shall set a date, time and location for a hearing
and notify the complainant and respondent in writing at least 20 days in
advance of that hearing date.
      (2)   The Commission will conduct an administrative hearing and to
regulate the course of the proceedings in a manner that will promote the
orderly and prompt conduct of the hearing.
      (3)   All pre-hearing proceedings, hearings, judicial review and appeals
shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Kentucky
Civil Rights Act, including KRS 344.240 and KRS Chapter 13B, the provisions of
all of which are hereby adopted in full and incorporated herein by reference.
      (4)   If the Commission finds that a violation has occurred, it may
recommend a penalty as provided for herein subject to the approval of Council.
      (5)   The Commission shall submit the final adjudication and recommended
order to the City Council for approval.
      (6)   The Commission shall serve a copy of the order to the complainant
and respondent. The respondent shall have 30 days to pay any penalty issued in
the order. If the respondent does not pay the penalty within the time given,
then City Council may direct the City Attorney to place a lien against the
respondent's property in the office of the County Clerk where said property is
located.
      (7)   An appeal from any final order may be made to the Kenton County
District Court within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall
be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the order in the same
manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure. The
appeal shall be tried de novo. A judgment of the district court may be appealed
to the Kenton Circuit Court in accordance with the Kentucky Rules of Civil
Procedure.
   (E)   Rights created under this chapter may be enforced by civil action in
the state or local courts of general jurisdiction by aggrieved individuals by
bringing an action within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory practice
has occurred.
   (F)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and punitive damages, together with court
costs and reasonable attorney's fees in the case of prevailing plaintiff.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.12 OBSTRUCTION AND RETALIATION.
   It shall be an unlawful practice for a person, or for two or more persons
to:
   (A)   Retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he or
she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he or
she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated
in any manner in any investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter;
   (B)   Aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce a person to engage in any of the
acts or practices declared unlawful by this chapter;
   (C)   Obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the provisions of
this chapter or any order issued thereunder;
   (D)   Resist, prevent, impede, or interfere with the city, or any of its
members or representatives, in the lawful performance of duty under this
chapter; or
   (E)   Coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the
exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised or
enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this
chapter and KRS 344.360, 344.367, 344.370, 344.380 or 344.680.
   (F)   To engage in frivolous conduct. Frivolous conduct shall mean to harass
or maliciously injure another party, such as, but not limited to, filing a
false or misleading complaint, claim or defense; or filing a complaint or
asserting a defense that is not warranted under existing law and that cannot be
supported by a good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
§ 42.99 PENALTIES.
   On a finding of a violation of this chapter, the Commission may recommend a
fine of $250 for each violation. The Commission may recommend to the City
Council of the City of Fort Mitchell to seek injunctive relief against a
violator to compel compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 7-19-21)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SEWERS
   
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Interfering with sewers or manholes prohibited
   
50.02   Sewer Maintenance and Replacement Fund
Connections
   
50.15   Connection of certain drains required
Discharge Regulations
   
50.30   Discharge of storm water into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
50.31   Discharge of sewage into storm sewers prohibited
   
50.32   Grease traps or interceptors for schools or businesses
Rates and Charges
   
50.45   Sewer user service charges
   
50.46   Billing; delinquency and disconnection
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTERFERING WITH SEWERS OR MANHOLES PROHIBITED.
   The act of covering, concealing or interfering with manholes, sanitary
lines, storm lines and the like and the act of throwing refuse in catch basins
and sewers in the city is absolutely prohibited. The failure of any person to
comply herewith shall constitute a misdemeanor.
('88 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1960- , passed 6-15-60)
Penalty, see § 50.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
§ 50.02 SEWER MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A Sewer Maintenance and Replacement Fund (the Fund) for the city is
hereby established. All funds received for charges made under the provisions of
§ 50.45 shall be deposited into the Fund. The Fund shall be used for operating,
maintaining, repairing, replacing, extending and improving the sanitary sewer
system and the sanitation and water disposal system of the city. The Fund shall
also be used to accumulate a reserve for these purposes and to provide funds
for a long-range program of improvements for the city's sewer system.
   (B)   All revenues received will be deposited into the Sewer Maintenance and
Replacement Fund and shall be invested and reinvested as permitted by law. All
earnings of the Fund shall be accrued to the benefit of the Fund. Any moneys
from the General Fund of the city which are being used for the purposes for
which the Sewer Maintenance and Replacement Fund has been established may be
applied to other purposes deemed appropriate by the Mayor as approved by the
City Council.
('88 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 1986-18, passed 10-20-86)
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.15 CONNECTION OF CERTAIN DRAINS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No zoning or building permit shall be issued for any structure or for
the remodeling of any structure which does not show the locations for downspout
drains, driveway drains and storm water drains, from point of collection to the
point of disposal, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   All downspout drains, driveway drains and storm water drains shall be
connected to storm sewers where and when it is, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, reasonable to do so, but in no case is any storm drain or sewer to
be connected to a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Where it is impractical to tie or connect the house storm drain system
directly to a storm sewer, the storm water shall be carried underground in pipe
to be disposed of in the gutter of the public street abutting the lot on which
construction or improvement is taking place. If it is necessary to cut the curb
to place storm drains so that storm water will empty into the public street
gutter, the curb shall be patched and grouted in a clean, workmanlike manner
acceptable to the Building Inspector and at the cost of the owner or
contractor.
   (D)   If storm water cannot be disposed of in a public storm sewer or street
gutter, the storm water shall be carried in pipe into the back yard to a point
approximately equidistant from the two side lot lines, the rear lot line, and
the rear line of the structure. No storm water shall be discharged toward or in
the immediate vicinity of a property line. The termination of the property line
shall be marked so that during final inspection the Building Inspector may
approve or order changes in same.
   (E)   The owner and the contractor shall in all instances do and perform all
work necessary to prevent or to minimize erosion of land as directed by the
City Engineer.
   (F)   In any instances where any storm water not being discharged as
described herein from any existing or new structure shall cause damage or loss
to any public lands or structures, the damage or loss shall be repaired or
replaced by the owner of the property from which the storm water came. All
costs shall be borne by the owner and the storm water drain system shall be
repaired in accordance with all provisions of this and any other applicable
section.
('88 Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 1974-26, passed 10-21-74)
Penalty, see § 50.99
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.30 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cellar drainage of
groundwater origin, cooling water, unpolluted water or drainage to or into any
sanitary sewer, without the express written consent of the Director of the
Public Works Department and the County Health Department.
('88 Code, § 50.30)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.31 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE INTO STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the storm sewers,
any sanitary sewage, combinations of storm water and sanitary sewage, garbage,
solid food wastes, leaves, trash, debris, water or other liquid containing
solids or suspended solids.
('88 Code, § 50.31)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.32 GREASE TRAPS OR INTERCEPTORS FOR SCHOOLS OR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All business and school buildings within the corporate limits of the
city in which there are in use any dish washing machines, scullery and pot
sinks, steam cookers, or other fixtures discharging grease-laden waste shall be
provided with approved grease traps or interceptors to prevent grease from
entering any soil, waste or drain pipe.
   (B)   Grease traps or interceptors must be approved for design and
application by the State Plumbing Inspector, and shall have a certified minimum
grease retention efficiency of 90% and be sized in accordance with established
standards to correspond with the type and flow rate of the fixture.
   (C)   Grease traps shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall be cleaned at designated intervals necessary to ensure the exclusion of
grease from the drainage system.
('88 Code, § 50.32) (Ord. 1953-6, passed 12-9-53; Am. Ord. 1954-3, passed 2-24-
54)
Penalty, see § 50.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.45 SEWER USER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There is hereby established and imposed the following sewer user
service charges to be assessed all persons who are billed for water usage in
the city.
 
Water Used per Quarter (in Cubic Feet) Charge
First 800                              $2 (minimum quarterly charge)
Next 4,200                             $.15 per 100 cu. ft.
All in excess of 5,000                 $.125 per 100 cu. ft.
 
   (B)   Water meter readings are to be made to the nearest 100 cubic feet.
   (C)   The imposition of the sewer user service charge shall terminate on
November 30, 1997, as to sewer usage made after the date and the collection of
the sewer user service charge based upon water usage after the date shall
cease.
('88 Code, § 50.45) (Ord. 1986-18, passed 10-20-86; Am. Ord. 1998-1, passed 3-
2-98)
§ 50.46 BILLING; DELINQUENCY AND DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   The sewer user service charges shall be billed and collected under the
terms of an agreement between the city and the Sanitation District No. 1 of
Campbell and Kenton Counties, and all collection, charges, discounts, methods
and manners of payment shall be in accord with the procedures and policies of
the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties.
   (B)   The City Administrative Officer, or other officer or agent of the city
in charge of the sewer system, shall cause to be discontinued or shut off the
water service to the premises served when the sewer charges herein imposed are
not paid and become delinquent as determined by the Sanitation District No. 1
of Campbell and Kenton Counties. Water service shall not be reinstated until
the entire gross bill for the service is paid in full.
('88 Code, § 50.46) (Ord. 1986-18, passed 10-6-86)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. ('88 Code,
§ 50.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Pickup and disposal service required; containers
   
51.03   Placement of containers
   
51.04   Leaves and grass; placement
   
51.05   Uncollected garbage; nuisance
Rates and Charges
   
51.20   Waste collection charge imposed
   
51.21   Persons liable for charges
   
51.22   Charges
   
51.23   Due date; delinquent payments
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All organic household waste, offal, animal and vegetable matter,
such as has been prepared or intended to be used as food, or shall have arisen
in the preparation of food and like matter, from wholesale and retail
groceries, stores and stands, restaurants, apartments and the like.
   TRASH. All ashes, papers and cans but shall not include leaves, weeds,
trees, branches, grass, old discarded furniture and boxes.
   UNIT or FAMILY UNIT. A one-family dwelling shall be a UNIT. Each apartment
in an apartment building shall be a separate UNIT. In the case of businesses,
each business shall be a separate UNIT.
('88 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 1968-7, passed 4-1-68)
§ 51.02 PICKUP AND DISPOSAL SERVICE REQUIRED; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All owners and occupants of improved real estate and the operators of
businesses within the city shall pay the fee assessed by the city for garbage
pickup and disposal services provided by the city.
   (B)   All garbage, trash, cans, ashes and weeds shall be placed in airtight,
fly-tight and waterproof containers of a capacity not to exceed 20 gallons. The
containers shall have a tight-fitting cover and shall at all times be covered.
   (C)   Garbage and trash need not be placed in separate containers, and all
garbage, trash, leaves, weeds, grass, cans and other similar materials may be
placed together in the above containers, provided covers are kept on
containers.
('88 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.03 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or permit garbage or trash
containers of any kind to be placed at the curb line in front of any premises
for collection before the hour of 4:00 p.m., prevailing time, of the evening
before the collection dates on the street or alley on which the premises are
located, and the containers shall be placed at the curb line in front of the
premises. It shall be unlawful for garbage or trash containers to be placed for
collection prior to the time contained herein on the streets or alleys or for
the garbage or trash containers to remain on the streets or alleys except on
the collection dates. After the containers have been emptied, the person owning
the containers shall remove them from view from the street or alley.
   (B)   No garbage or trash containers shall be placed on the streets or
alleys in violation of the provisions of this section by any person or for any
reason.
('88 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 1983-10, passed 9-12-83)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.04 LEAVES AND GRASS; PLACEMENT.
   No person shall deposit on or rake into any street or public way of the
city, any leaves or grass. Leaves and grass shall be placed in substantial
containers.
('88 Code, § 51.04)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.05 UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE; NUISANCE.
   Uncollected garbage and refuse are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
('88 Code, § 51.05)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.20 WASTE COLLECTION CHARGE IMPOSED.
   In addition to any occupancy charges, real estate taxes or license or
occupational license fees imposed by other ordinances of the city, the owners
and occupants of improved real estate and the operators of certain businesses,
firms, corporations and individually-operated businesses within the city shall
pay to the city a waste, garbage, trash and refuse collection service charge.
('88 Code, § 51.20)
§ 51.21 PERSONS LIABLE FOR CHARGES.
   The waste collection service charge imposed pursuant to this chapter, in the
case of dwelling or apartment units, shall be imposed against and payable by
the record title owner of the real estate as of January 1 of each year, and the
record title holder shall be responsible for payment of the charges imposed
herein. In the case of businesses, wherein the operator or owner of the
business may not be the record title holder of the property, the operator or
owner of the business shall be responsible for the payment of the charges
herein imposed. In the case of mobile homes or trailers used as a residence or
dwelling, the owner of the real estate upon which the trailer or mobile home is
situated shall be liable for payment of the charges herein imposed.
('88 Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 1968-7, passed 4-1-68)
§ 51.22 CHARGES.
   The amount and rate for waste collection charge shall be as set by the City
Council by ordinance from time to time enacted.
('88 Code, § 51.22) (Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 9-19-22)
§ 51.23 DUE DATE; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   The waste collection service charge provided by this chapter shall be
payable on or before October 31 of each year. All waste collection charges
remaining due and unpaid after October 31 of each year shall be deemed
delinquent, and after that date shall be subject to an additional penalty of
15% of the amount of the charge with interest thereon at 6% per annum until
paid.
('88 Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 1968-7, passed 4-1-68)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 for each offense. ('88 Code, §
51.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
   (F)   The city shall have a lien on all property for which benefit the waste
collection charge is hereby levied for payment of that charge, and for all
penalties, interest, fees, commissions, charges and other expenses, including
court costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by reason of any delinquency in
payment of that charge, or in the process of collecting them, and such lien has
priority over all other obligations or liabilities for which the property is
liable.
(Ord. 2013-19, passed 8-5-13)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   MOTOR ASSISTED VEHICLES, BICYCLES, AND MOTORCYCLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Speed Hump Traffic Control Installation Criteria
   
70.50   Purpose
   
70.51   Definitions
   
70.52   Eligible streets
   
70.53   Criteria for consideration of speed humps
   
70.54    [Reserved]
   
70.55    [Reserved]
   
70.56   Location selection guidelines
   
70.57   Signs and markings
   
70.58    Removal of speed humps
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Police
Chief.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of § 70.03 or any other acts necessary to
implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
('88 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
('88 Code, § 70.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and develop ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
('88 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
('88 Code, § 70.04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Police Chief or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations as he
may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
('88 Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or ”Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at the
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at the other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   Yield right-of-way. Vehicular traffic facing the “yield right-of-way”
sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “yield right-of-way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at the place prohibits
the turn.
('88 Code, § 70.15)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
('88 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   A sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
('88 Code, § 70.17)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
('88 Code, § 70.18)
Penalty see § 70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
('88 Code, § 70.19)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
('88 Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
('88 Code, § 70.21)
SPEED HUMP TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTALLATION CRITERIA
§ 70.50 PURPOSE.
   The use of speed humps on city streets serves to reduce vehicular speeds as
well as reduce cut-through traffic on local residential city streets. Both of
these effects are realized when speed humps are installed on a city street. The
application of speed humps is limited to city streets where geometric
configuration or design fails to passively deter many drivers from exceeding
the speed limit or from using streets as bypass routes. The proper application
of speed humps enhances public safety. The city hereby adopts this subchapter
in order to utilize speed humps as part of its traffic laws to control traffic
and increase the safety of its citizens at and along its city streets. All
speed humps will be governed by the provisions set forth herein.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed 8-12-24)
§ 70.51 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to §§
70.50 through
70.59:
   AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT). The average volume of traffic on a city street
during a 24-hour period as measured through a traffic survey. The traffic study
shall be a minimum of 72 hours in duration.
   CRITICAL SPEED or 85TH PERCENTILE SPEED. The speed at or below which 85% of
the traffic is moving. The 85TH PERCENTILE SPEED is used as one of the criteria
to determine if a street qualifies for speed humps.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE (MFR). A residential property with two to four
individual housing units (duplex, triplex, quadplex).
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE (SFR). A single-family detached home, or single-
family home or detached house for short, also variously known as a single-
detached dwelling.
   SPEED HUMP. A single asphalt hump, parabolic in shape, covering 12 feet of
street, with a height between three and one-quarter and three and three-quarter
inches.
   SPEED SURVEY. A survey of traffic speeds and volume conducted by the use of
a magnetic sensor(s) or air pressure hose(s) to determine the percentage of
traffic exceeding the speed limit and the volume of traffic. The speed survey
shall be a minimum of 72 hours in duration.
   STREET SEGMENT. That portion of street contained between the closest of any
traffic light(s), four-way intersection(s)s, stop sign(s), and/or curve(s) with
less than a 250-foot radius.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13)
§ 70.52 ELIGIBLE STREETS.
   In order for a city street to be eligible for a speed hump, the following
initial criteria must first be met:
   (A)   The street segment must be 750 feet in length between traffic
controls, four-way intersections, and/or curves with less than a 250-foot
radius.
   (B)   The posted speed limit must be 30 mph or less.
   (C)   The frontage of subject street segment must be at least 75%
residential.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-18, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
08, passed 8-12-24)
§ 70.53 CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERATION OF SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   In order for a citizen to request the installation of a speed hump on
a city street eligible under §
70.52 to have a speed hump constructed thereon, the following criteria must
first be met:
      (1)   Delivery to the City Administrative Officer of a petition signed by
not less than a total of ten SFR, and/or MFR, or a combination thereof, from
the affected street segment where the proposed speed hump is to be installed; a
residence is affected if it is located upon the street segment. The petition
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A caption that includes, in bold font, at least 14 point, “A
PETITION TO INSTALL SPEED HUMP(S) ON [Name of street or road] STREET/ROAD”;
         (b)   The legibly printed name, address, and signature of each
petitioner; and
         (c)   A description of the affected street segment, either by listing
the addresses or address range of the residents along the segment, or a
description of the starting point and stopping point of the affected street
segment.
      (2)   The criteria and requirements set forth in this section and §
70.52 for a speed hump to be located, constructed and installed are met.
      (3)   The eligible street has not failed to meet the requirements set
forth in §
70.52 within one year from the date the petition referenced in §
70.53(A)(1) is delivered to City Administrative Officer.
   (B)   If the above criteria have been satisfied, the City Administrative
Officer shall provide the petition to Council for approval.
   (C)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
city from installing a speed hump on a city street eligible under §
70.52 at its discretion. The city retains the right to install a speed hump at
any time to enhance the public safety as determined by the Mayor or City
Administrator, so long as the criteria set forth in §§
70.52,
70.55, and
70.56 are met.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed 8-12-24)
§ 70.54 [RESERVED].
§ 70.55 [RESERVED].
§ 70.56 LOCATION SELECTION GUIDELINES.
   In selecting precise locations for any speed hump installation, the
following guidelines shall be followed:
   (A)   Speed humps shall not be located over manholes, water valves, or
whenever possible, within 25 feet of fire hydrants, as they prevent/impede
access to these facilities.
   (B)   Speed humps should be located five to ten feet away from driveways,
whenever possible, to minimize their effect on driveway access.
   (C)   Speed humps should be located on or near property lines, whenever
possible, to minimize the impact on access to individual properties.
   (D)   Speed humps should be located near streetlights, whenever possible, in
order to enhance their visibility at night.
   (E)   Speed humps should be located a minimum distance of 200 feet from
corners, whenever possible, and should never be located within a corner radius.
   (F)   Where speed humps are constructed on streets having curves with
greater than a 250-foot radius, no speed hump shall be located on the
horizontal curve(s).
   (G)   Speed humps shall be spaced at a minimum interval of 250 feet. Speed
humps will be placed no closer than 200 feet from traffic control devices or
four-way intersections.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13)
§ 70.57 SIGNS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   In order to alert motorist of upcoming speed humps the following
warning devices shall be used:
      (1)   A street sign, at least 30 inches in height and width, stating
“SPEED HUMPS AHEAD” or “SPEED HUMP AHEAD”, in four-inch series “C” letters, and
a second sign placed directly below the 30-inch warning sign recommending a
speed of 15 mph;
      (2)   Pavement markings, which shall be 12-inch-wide, longitudinal-ladder
markings, at four feet on center, to be stenciled across each speed hump; and
      (3)   Raised, reflectorized pavement markers installed and placed on the
centerline, positioned on the crest and in the front of the speed hump from
both approach directions. All warning devices should be easily visible on both
approaches to the speed hump.
   (B)   All signs and markings required hereunder shall be part of any
contract bid package for the installation of any speed hump.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13)
§ 70.58 REMOVAL OF SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   Removing a speed hump may be considered when the criteria listed below
are met:
      (1)   It is shown that a speed hump is ineffective in reducing the speed
of vehicles, based on a speed survey conducted for a minimum period of 72
hours. A speed hump shall be deemed ineffective in reducing speed if the 85th
percentile and the average speed from such survey are both less than two mph
lower than the 85th percentile and average speed reflected in the original
speed survey conducted for the installation of the speed hump;
      (2)   It is shown that a speed hump is ineffective in reducing the volume
of vehicles based on an ADT count. A speed hump shall be deemed ineffective in
reducing traffic volumes if the ADT is reduced by less than 10% from the
street's ADT count performed as part of the installation of speed hump; and
      (3)   There is a petition in favor of removing the speed hump signed by
not less than two-thirds of the residents/owners who would otherwise be
entitled to sign a petition in favor of the installation of the speed hump.
   (B)   Removing a speed hump that has been installed for less than two years
will only be considered if the city is compensated by those requesting its
removal for the full cost of removing the speed hump, including costs of
design, construction, inspection, signage and administration.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 8-19-13; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed 8-12-24)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500. ('88 Code, § 70.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles
   
71.29   Tractor trailers and other large vehicles
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
('88 Code, 71.01)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330 (8)) ('88 Code, § 71.02)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
('88 Code, § 71.03)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
('88 Code, § 71.04)
Penalty, see § 71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render the assistance as may be needed.
('88 Code, § 71.15)
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
('88 Code, § 71.16)
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) above shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s
license under KRS 186.500
(KRS 189.290) ('88 Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle,
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in
the position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or fire fighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep the position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or fire fighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or fire fighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle; if
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) ('88 Code, § 71.26)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) ('88 Code, § 71.27)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.28 TRACTORS, TRACTION ENGINES AND SIMILAR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any machinery, utensils or implements used solely for agriculture,
farming or manufacturing purposes may be operated on the highways in the city
under present equipment except as is provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   No tractor, traction engine, hauling engine or other similar power
vehicle having any projections on the face of the tires or rims of the wheels
in contact with the pavement shall be operated on any highway in the city, the
top surface of which is either composed of or treated with bituminous materials
or concrete except that the driving wheels may be fitted with flat lugs
extending diagonally across the entire width of the tire or rim. Those lugs
shall be not less than one inch in width at the bearing surface in contact with
the pavement, but those lugs shall be so spaced that not less than two lugs on
each driving wheel shall be in contact with the highway surface at all times.
The front or non-driving wheels may be fitted with flat steering rings, if
those rings are at least two inches in width and not more than one and one-half
inches in height, but there shall be no bolt head, rivet heads or other
projections beyond the face of the tire or rim. The narrow angle iron lugs used
for plowing or on soft ground shall not be permitted, nor shall any tractor or
other vehicle or other vehicles of the faces of the shoes or treads of the
track in contact with the roadway be permitted unless fitted with flat lugs, in
a way that will prevent any injury to the highway by wither the narrow angle
lugs or the projections on any tractor or other vehicle named in this section.
(KRS 189.190 (3) and (4)) ('88 Code, § 71.28)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.29 TRACTOR-TRAILERS AND OTHER LARGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPERATE. To be in actual control of a motor vehicle upon a roadway of the
city.
      SEMI-TRAILER. Any trailer intended for the carrying of freight or
merchandise, designed to be attached to and having its front end supported by a
truck tractor or other motor vehicle, and having a load capacity of at least
1,000 pounds.
      THROUGH-TRUCK. Any tractor- trailer operated upon a road within the city
limits and not making a pickup or delivery at a business or residence within
the city limits.
      TRACTOR-TRAILER. The combination of a semi-trailer and a truck tractor or
other motor vehicle, or the combination of a trailer and truck tractor or other
motor vehicle, with a combined total of at least three axles.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle intended for the carrying of freight or merchandise,
designed to be drawn by a truck tractor or other motor vehicle, fully supported
upon its own wheels, and having a load capacity of at least 1,000 pounds.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor- propelled vehicle designed to attach to and
support the front end of a semi-trailer.
   (B)   Locations prohibited. The operation of through-trucks on any city-
owned street within city limits is prohibited.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibitions contained in this section shall not apply
to the following:
      (1)   Vehicles equipped with attachments for removing snow, when being
used for that purpose during a declared snow emergency or as otherwise required
to maintain safe conditions upon the roadways during periods of inclement
weather;
      (2)   Vehicles being used for the distribution of salt or other material
upon the roads, during a declared snow emergency or as otherwise required to
maintain safe conditions upon the roadways during periods of inclement weather;
      (3)   Any emergency vehicle owned or operated by any city, county, state,
or other governmental entity.
   (D)   The Police Department of the city is hereby authorized and instructed
to erect appropriate signage to provide notice of the provisions herein.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-17-05; Am. Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-2-25) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park, or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
('88 Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
('88 Code, § 71.41)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by
the officer.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (C)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
('88 Code, § 71.42)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
('88 Code, § 71.43)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
('88 Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
('88 Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this
subchapter.
('88 Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade;
   (E)   The City Administrative Officer; and
   (F)   The Chief of the Life Squad.
('88 Code, § 71.47) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01)
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
('88 Code, § 71.48)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
('88 Code, § 71.49)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreason-ably hamper, obstruct, impede
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
('88 Code, § 71.50)
Cross reference:
Parking on parade route, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
('88 Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993 (8))
   (C)   Any person or entity who owns, operates, or permits to be operated any
through- truck as described in §
71.29(B), in violation of that section, shall be guilty of a violation and
shall be punished by a fine of $150 for the first offense, $250 for the second
offense, and $550 for the third and subsequent offenses. Each day a violation
occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
('88 Code, § 71.99) (Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-17-05; Am. Ord. 2025-2, passed
6-2-25)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Violation and impoundment for unpaid parking citations
Impounding
   
72.20   Charges for towing, handling and storage; hearing on validity of
impoundment; appeal
   
72.21   Vehicle abandonment, escheat provisions, and lien for parking
violations
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
Enforcement Procedures
   
72.50   Notice of illegally parked vehicle
   
72.51   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.52   Penalties for parking violations
   
72.53   Notice of violation
Hearing Board
   
72.60   Hearing Board established
   
72.61   Contest of violation determination; hearing; appeal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related
to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
('88 Code, § 72.01)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Diagonal parking places shall be designated
by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required
angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
('88 Code, § 72.02)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park the
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-control
device.
   (H)   On any unpaved surface.
   (I)   In any location, time or condition set forth in §
72.52 of the Code of Ordinances.
   (J)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
('88 Code, § 72.03) (Am. Ord. 2010-08, passed 12-6-10)   
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 189.450 (5) and (6)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting signs or in conjunction therewith, the
face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited
at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
('88 Code, § 72.04)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
('88 Code, § 72.05)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 48 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 48 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
('88 Code, § 72.06) (Am. Ord. 2003-04, passed 3-17-03)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Presumption in reference to illegal parking, see §
72.51
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
('88 Code, § 72.07)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of KRS 189.725 and 376.275.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
('88 Code, § 72.08) (Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 2- 21-11)   
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the removal of vehicles by owners of private
parking lots; signs, see KRS 189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
('88 Code, § 72.09)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
('88 Code, § 72.10)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
('88 Code, § 72.11)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (C)   A physically handicapped person may hereafter submit application to
the Chief of Police or his representative for a designated on-street handicap
parking space.
      (1)   The applicant shall meet all the following criteria to qualify for
a designated on-street handicap parking space:
         (a)   The applicant must provide proof of a handicap license plate
pursuant to KRS 186.042; or a disabled veteran license plate pursuant to KRS
186.041; or a special handicap parking permit issued by the Kenton County Clerk
pursuant to KRS 189.456 (permanent disability only).
         (b)   The applicant should own an automobile and possess a valid
operator's license.
         (c)   The applicant must provide a copy of the deed showing ownership
of the parcel of property to which the on-street handicap parking space will
abut or, if the residence is rented, the applicant must provide written
authorization from the owner indicating there is no objection to the on-street
handicap parking space.
         (d)   The applicant's residence must either lack off-street parking,
or the applicant's disability must render any available off-street parking
inaccessible or impractical for the applicant's use (i.e. the applicant is
unable to traverse steps and use of the off-street parking would require the
applicant to use steps to access his/her residence).
         (e)   The proposed on-street handicap parking space must not interfere
with public safety and other necessary public services.
         (f)   Only one designated parking space will be allowed per property.
      (2)   Application and approval. The following procedural guidelines shall
be observed when making application for an on-street handicap parking space:
         (a)   A completed application form shall be submitted to the Chief of
Police or his representative. All supporting documentation shall be submitted
at the time of application.
         (b)   The application and supporting documentation will be reviewed by
the Chief of Police or his representative to ensure compliance with the
criteria as contained in division (A) of this section. As necessary, the Chief
of Police may consult with the Director of Public Works, Fire Chief, or City
Administrator in reviewing an application.
         (c)   A decision to approve or deny a request will be made in writing
to the applicant within 14 calendar days after receipt of application by the
city and shall be signed by the Mayor or his designee.
         (d)   If an application for on-street handicap parking space is
approved, the city may charge a reasonable fee up to $50 or the actual cost of
the sign and post to applicants for designated parking spaces before final
processing of an application will occur.
      (3)   Installation and use.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an approved application, the city Public Works
Department will install a handicap parking sign and may mark the boundaries of
the parking space with painted lines at each end in order to designate the on-
street handicap parking space. A designated parking space shall not be more
than 23 feet in length.
         (b)   A designated space approved and marked in accordance with this
ordinance is not reserved for the exclusive use of the applicant. Any
handicapped person having the proper handicap designation on their vehicle may
utilize an on-street handicap parking space. Only vehicles without the proper
handicap parking designation will be ticketed.
         (c)   Vehicles parked in designated on-street handicap parking spaces
shall be subject to all local ordinances and state statutes governing the
parking of vehicles on the street where the handicap space has been designated.
      (4)   Space renewal/expiration and removal.
         (a)   All on-street handicap parking space designations granted under
this ordinance shall expire on December 31 of each year. If the applicant has
not reapplied to the Chief of Police within 30 days after said expiration to
provide proof that the on-street handicap parking designation remains
warranted, the designation will be removed, public works may remove the sign
and any markings and, if the applicant wants to keep the designation, the
application will be handled as a new application under this section. There
shall be no fee to re-apply if the application is received by January 30.
         (b)   On-Street handicap parking spaces will be removed if the
applicant moves or otherwise vacates the residence for more than 90 days.
      (5)   Non-residential designated handicap parking. Public buildings,
churches, schools, and places of assembly shall also be eligible to apply for
an on-street handicap parking space. Such requests shall be considered by the
City Council on a case by case basis.
      (6)   Appeals.
         (a)   If the Chief of Police denies an application for a designated
parking space, the applicant may appeal this denial to the Hearing Board
(established under §
72.60) by filing a notice of appeal with the Chief of Police, within 30 days
after the date of denial.
         (B)   If an applicant fails to appeal a denial by the Chief of Police
within the time frames set forth herein, such denial or decision shall not be
subject to further review. An applicant who is denied a designated parking
space under this section may not re-apply for such a space for a period of 12
months after the date of denial or if such denial is appealed, 12 months after
the date when a final decision is rendered in the appeal.
('88 Code, § 72.12) (Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 6-19-17) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 VIOLATION AND IMPOUNDMENT FOR UNPAID PARKING CITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, or any vehicle’s owner or
operator that has previously been cited for violations of this chapter, to be
parked on any city street, if the fees assessed as a result of such citation(s)
have not been paid within 30 days from the date of citation.
   (B)   Any vehicle violating this section is subject to an additional fine
pursuant to §
72.52 as well as being towed and impounded pursuant to §
72.20 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 4-1-13)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 CHARGES FOR TOWING, HANDLING AND STORAGE; HEARING ON VALIDITY OF
IMPOUNDMENT; APPEAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the city may impound a motor vehicle parked,
stopped or standing upon a street or public way within its jurisdiction in
violation of an ordinance or statute prohibiting parking, stopping or standing
in the location, manner or at the time the vehicle is cited or for any other
lawful reason.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, in addition to the fines levied for the
parking or traffic offense, the city shall impose reasonable towing, handling
and storage charges upon any vehicle that is impounded pursuant to division
(A). In addition to the towing fees, the city shall charge an administrative
holding fee of 30% of the towing costs, plus any preliminary sale advertising
expenses, and a storage fee of $25 per day for the first 14 days and $15 per
day for each day thereafter for each vehicle until redeemed. In the event the
condition of the vehicle or circumstances of the tow requires the employment of
extraordinary services or equipment, the reasonable charges of the towing
operator, as approved by the Police Chief, for such shall be added to the fee.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the release of an impounded vehicle shall be
conditioned upon the payment of the towing, handling and storage charges
imposed thereon, unless the owner or other person entitled to possession
challenges the validity of the impoundment pursuant to division (D) of this
section. A vehicle may be released to the owner or other person entitled to
possession only upon proof of ownership or right to possession and proof of
current, valid insurance. The city may require reasonable security, bond or
other assurances of indemnification from a person who is not the registered
owner of the vehicle prior to releasing the vehicle to that person.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the owner or other person entitled to
possession may challenge the validity of the impoundment and request in writing
a hearing before the Hearing Board created under §
72.60 by filing a request with the City Clerk within the timeframe provided by
§ 72.65. The hearing shall be conducted within ten business days of the date of
the request, unless the owner or other person entitled to possession waives the
limitation or the city shows good cause for the delay. The city, or its
contracted agents who have possession of the vehicle, shall retain possession
of the vehicle pending the hearing, unless the owner or other person claiming
right of possession posts a bond in an amount equal to the fines and fees
accrued as of the date of the hearing request, or $75 whichever is less. If the
owner or person claiming possession of the vehicle is unable to pay the amount
of the bond, the hearing shall be held within 72 hours of the date the request
for hearing is received, unless the person requests or agrees to a continuance.
   (E)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, not less than five days prior to the
date set for the hearing, the city shall notify the person requesting the
hearing of the date, time and place of the hearing. In the case of a hearing
required to be held within 72 hours of the date of the request as provided in
division (D) of this section, the person requesting the hearing shall be
informed at the time of his request, or as soon thereafter as is practicable,
of the date and time of the hearing.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, any person who refuses or, except for good
cause, fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be
deemed to have conceded on his or her and the owner’s behalf the validity of
the impoundment.
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, at the hearing, after consideration of the
evidence, the Hearing Board shall determine whether the impoundment was valid
and reasonable. Where it has not been established that the impoundment was
justified, an order releasing the vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees
paid or amounts posted as bond because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall
be returned. Where it has been established that the impoundment was justified,
the Hearing Board shall uphold the impoundment and condition the release of the
vehicle upon payment of all fines and fees accruing thereto. If bond has been
posted as security for release of the vehicle, the bond shall be forfeited to
the city. Any fines or fees in excess of the amount of the bond posted shall be
ordered to be paid by the owner of the vehicle to the city. The Hearing Board
shall furnish the owner or person appearing on the owner’s behalf with a copy
of its order.
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the Hearing Board may consider a parking
citation and any other written report made under oath by the issuing officer in
lieu of the officer’s personal appearance at the hearing.
      (5)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, an appeal from the Hearing Board’s
determination may be made to the Kenton District Court within seven days of the
Hearing Board’s determination. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the Hearing Board’s order in the same manner as any
civil action. The action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be on the
city to establish that impoundment was justified. If the court finds that the
impoundment was justified, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fees and fines
accruing as of the date of judgment. If the court finds that the impoundment
was not justified, the city shall be ordered to release the vehicle, if
applicable, and to return all fines and fees paid as a result of the
impoundment and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his costs.
   (6)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the judgment of the District Court may be
appealed to the Circuit Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
§ 72.21 VEHICLE ABANDONMENT, ESCHEAT PROVISIONS, AND LIEN FOR PARKING
VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.635, the city shall possess a lien on a motor
vehicle impounded pursuant to this section for all fines, penalties, and
towing, handling and storage charges and fees imposed thereon and the lien
shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens thereon.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, if within ten business days of
impoundment a motor vehicle impounded by the city has not been claimed, or a
hearing has not been requested pursuant to §
72.20(D) and KRS 82.625, notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the
registered owner, if known, and lienholders of record, if any, affording the
parties the right within ten days from the date of notice to claim the vehicle
or request a hearing pursuant to §
72.20(D) and KRS 82.625. The notice shall state that, if no hearing pursuant is
requested, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned unless the charges thereon are
paid within 45 days of receipt of notice.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, after 45 days from the date of notice
required by division (B)(1) of this section an impounded motor vehicle shall be
deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall escheat to the city.
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, if the vehicle is judged suitable for use,
the city may obtain a certificate of registration and ownership from the County
Clerk pursuant to KRS 186.020 and either use the vehicle for governmental
purposes or sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the
vehicle is not suitable for use, it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or the Chief of Police, or other authorized city official
finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which
makes it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on streets located within
the city be prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that the parking be prohibited, he is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him. After the effective time of the prohibition no person shall park any
vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on any street located within the
city. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Mayor or Chief of Police, or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
streets located within the city is to be prohibited after a specified time, a
vehicle parked on any street located within the city may remain so parked until
7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Mayor
or Chief of Police, or other authorized city official under the authority of
this section shall remain in effect until he announces the termination of the
snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by
this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Am. Ord. 2010-08, passed 12-6-10)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or Chief of Police, or other authorized city official
shall find that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow
emergency prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If an announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(Am. Ord. 2010-08, passed 12-6-10)
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 72.50 NOTICE OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this city or by
state law, the police officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration
number and may take any other information available which may identify its
user, and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a notice or citation in
writing on a form provided by the city, for the driver to answer to the charge
against him at a place and at a time designated therein. The notice shall
include the information set forth in KRS 82.610.
('88 Code, § 72.25) (Ord. 1965-10, passed 10-18-65; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-
21-11)   
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.51 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   When the procedure, as prescribed in §
72.50, has been followed in any prosecution charging a violation of any law or
regulation governing the parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time parked, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of that vehicle
was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the
time during which, the violation occurred.
('88 Code, § 72.26) (Ord. 1965-10, passed 10-18-65)
§ 72.52 PENALTIES FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation charged with any of the following
parking violations shall be assessed a fine in the following amount:
      (1)   Blocking an alley, driveway, or street: $25.
      (2)   Parking at a bus stop: $25.
      (3)   Parking too close to a fire plug: $50.
      (4)   Improper parking: $25.
      (5)   Parking in a loading zone: $25.
      (6)   Unauthorized parking in a designated handicapped parking area: $50.
      (7)   Overtime parking: $25.
      (8)   Parking in a prohibited area: $25.
      (9)   Parking within 30 feet of an intersection corner: $25.
      (10)   Parking on any city street during a snow emergency: $25 for the
first offense, $50 for a second offense occurring within 12 months of the first
offense, and $100 for a third or subsequent offense occurring within 12 months
of the first offense.
      (11)   Obstructing traffic: $25.
           (12)   Double parking: $25.
      (13)   Parking with unpaid parking citations as provided in §
72.13: $50.
   (B)   If any fine set forth in this section is not paid within the deadlines
set forth in the chart below, the fines shall be increased by the amounts shown
below:
 
Fine Not Paid from Date of Issuance Amount In Addition To Base Citation Amount
                                    (non-cumulative)
10 days                             $10
30 days                             $50
45 days                             $75
60 days                             $100
 
   (C)   Any days over 60 days shall be assessed an additional fine in the
amount of $1 per day.
('88 Code, § 72.27) (Ord. 1978-7, passed 3-20-78; Am. Ord. 1983-1, passed 3-7-
83; Am. Ord. 2010-08, passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11; Am.
Ord. 2013-06, passed 4-1-13)
§ 72.53 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Pursuant to KRS 82.615, any person who receives notice of a parking
violation shall, within seven days of the date of the notice, either pay the
fine set forth in the notice, or request a hearing as set forth in §
72.61. If the owner of a vehicle cited for a parking violation has not
responded to the notice within seven days the city shall send a second notice
by certified mail to the last known address of the registered owner of the
vehicle as listed on the certificate of title. The city may assess the actual
costs of the certified mailing and return receipt against the registered owner
of the vehicle. The notice shall state that if the owner of the vehicle does
not respond to the notice by either paying the fine or by requesting in writing
a hearing, within seven days of the receipt of the notice, the owner shall be
deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the determination that
a violation was committed shall be considered final. Any person who fails to
request a hearing or pay the fine within seven days shall be deemed to have
refused to pay the fine levied by the citation. The registered owner of a
vehicle at the time for violation occurred shall be liable for all fines, fees
and penalties which he has refused to pay.
(Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
HEARING BOARD
§ 72.60 HEARING BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to KRS 82.600 there is hereby created a Hearing Board empowered to
conduct hearings for violations of this
Chapter 72. The Hearing Board shall be composed of not less than one and not
more than three persons appointed by the Mayor by executive order for a term of
two years and who may likewise be removed at will by executive order. The Mayor
may appoint himself or herself to the Hearing Board. The Hearing Board may
appoint one or more hearing officers to conduct hearings. Any action of the
hearing officer shall be deemed to be the action of the Hearing Board.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
§ 72.61 CONTEST OF VIOLATION DETERMINATION; HEARING; APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person cited for a parking violation under this
Chapter 72 may contest the determination that a violation occurred by
requesting in writing a hearing before the Hearing Board. The hearing shall be
held no later than 14 days from the date of receipt of the request, unless
prior to the hearing the person requesting the hearing requests an extension of
time not to exceed 14 days. No less than seven days prior to the date set for
the hearing, the Hearing Board shall notify the registered owner of the vehicle
of the date, time and place of the hearing. Any person requesting a hearing who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation, and shall not have any
further rights to appeal.
   (B)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Hearing Board
shall determine whether a violation was committed. Where it has not been
established that the violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation
shall be entered. Where it has been established that a violation was committed,
the Hearing Board shall uphold the citation and order the owner to pay the
citation within seven days. A copy of the order shall be furnished to the
owner. Any person ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so within seven days
shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation.
   (C)   The Hearing Board may consider the parking citation and any other
written report made under oath by the officer who issued the citation in lieu
of the officer’s personal appearance at the hearing.
   (D)   An appeal from the Hearing Board’s determination may be made to the
Kenton County District Court within seven days of the Hearing Board’s
determination. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Hearing Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action under
the Rules of Civil Procedure. The action shall be tried de novo and the burden
shall be upon the city to establish that a violation occurred. If the court
finds that a violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fines,
fees and penalties occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the court finds
that a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
citation and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his or her costs.
   (E)   The judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit
Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100. (KRS 189.990 (1)) ('88 Code, § 72.99)
   (B)   As provided in KRS 82.605, any violation of this chapter is hereby
classified as a criminal and civil offense, and shall be deemed a civil offense
unless designated as a criminal offense in the citation.
   (C)   Each provision of this
Chapter 72 which is violated shall be considered a separate fineable offense.
If two or more provisions of this
Chapter 72 are violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under
the same citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense upon issuance of a separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 2-21-11)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR ASSISTED VEHICLES, BICYCLES, AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation of motor assisted vehicles and bicycles
   
73.03   Operation of motorcycles, mopeds, and all-terrain vehicles
   
73.04   Skating and coasting
   
73.05   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.06   Equipment
   
73.07   Administration; enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02 (C)
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-road
use.
   BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with two wheels that are in tandem
propelled by pedaling.
   MOPED. A motorized bicycle whose frame design may include one or more
horizontal crossbars supporting a fuel tank so long as it also has pedals, or a
motorized bicycle with a step through type frame which may or may not have
pedals rated no more than two brake horsepower, a cylinder capacity not
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, an automatic transmission not requiring
clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged, and
capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 miles per hour.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with two or three wheels designed primarily for
use on roadways, powered by an internal combustion engine, and typically larger
and faster than motor assisted vehicles.
   MOTOR ASSISTED VEHICLE. Any device powered by an electric motor, such as
electric scooters, electric bicycles, and similar devices designed primarily
for the transportation of persons or property for short-distance urban travel
and/or pedestrian pathways.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see
KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTOR ASSISTED VEHICLES AND BICYCLES.
   (A)   Any person riding a motorized assisted vehicle or bicycle on a
sidewalk shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible
signal before passing the pedestrian.
   (B)   Motor assisted vehicles and bicycles shall not exceed a maximum speed
of 15 miles per hour when operated on sidewalks.
   (C)   No motor assisted vehicle or bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (D)   No person riding on any motor assisted vehicle or bicycle shall attach
the vehicle or bicycle or himself to any vehicle on a roadway.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.03 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)    No person shall operate a motorcycle, moped, or all-terrain vehicle
on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No operator of any motorcycle, moped, or all-terrain vehicle shall
carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, moped, or all-terrain vehicle shall
operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a parking
area.
   (D)   No operator of a motorcycle, moped, or all-terrain vehicle shall
operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.04 SKATING AND COASTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on skates, or riding on a coaster sled
or toy vehicle of any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.05 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.06 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every motor assisted vehicle and bicycle shall be equipped with at
least one and not more than two headlamps on the forward-facing side of the
vehicle while operated on a city sidewalk, and said headlamp(s) must be
illuminated:
      (1)   During the period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise; and
      (2)   At such other times as atmospheric conditions render visibility as
low as or lower than is ordinarily the case during that period.
   (B)   Any headlamp equipped on a motor assisted vehicle or bicycle pursuant
to this section shall meet United States Department of Transportation
regulations, and shall not emit or appear to emit a solid color of light other
than white in compliance with the provisions of KRS 189.040.
   (C)   Any motor assisted vehicle and bicycle, when in use on a city
sidewalk, shall be equipped with a horn, bell, or other device capable of
making an abrupt sound sufficiently loud to be heard from a distance of at
least 200 feet under all ordinary traffic conditions. Every person operating a
motor assisted vehicle or bicycle as defined by this chapter shall sound the
horn or sound device whenever necessary as a warning of the approach of such
vehicle to pedestrians or other vehicles, but shall not sound the horn or sound
device unnecessarily.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.07 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, is the principal city
official responsible for the administration of this chapter, and he or she may
delegate any or all of the duties hereunder, including to the City Police
Department.
   (B)   The Police Department and any other department as designated by the
City Administrator shall be responsible for the issuance of any fine levied
under this chapter. Any fine issued pursuant to this chapter shall be collected
by the City Clerk's Office.
   (C)   Any city divisions and departments tasked with administration and
enforcement of this chapter may adopt procedures and regulations consistent
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $25 for each offense.
('88 Code, § 73 .99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any oilier means
authorized by law.
   (C)   Each section of the chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-24)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Prohibited turns
   
III.   Discharging or pick-up of passengers prohibited
   
IV.   Prohibited parking
   
V.   Stop signs
   
VI.   Parking time limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The city does hereby determine on the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations conducted by the city that the speed for the operation of
vehicles within the city permitted under KRS 189.390 (2) is greater than is
reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist on the street identified
and/or referenced herein. Therefore, the City Council determines, authorizes
and imposes the maximum speed limits as described in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or other public way in
the city, not specifically provided for below, at a greater speed than 25 miles
per hour.
   (C)   Whoever violates the speed limit set forth herein shall be subject to
the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
Speed Limits
Street Location Speed
Speed Limits
Street                Location                                          Speed
Allentown Drive       All                                               25
Alpine Drive          All                                               20
Anajo Lane            All                                               20
Anthony Lane          All                                               20
Ashton Road           All                                               25
Avon Court            All                                               20
Avon Drive            All                                               20
Beechwood Road        Between Page Road and Pleasant Ridge              25
Beechwood Road        Between Dixie Highway and Page Road other than    25
                      school hours
Beechwood Road        Between Pleasant Ridge and Pleasant Run Road      25
Beechwood Road        Between Dixie Highway and Page road during school 20
                      hours
Brice Avenue          All                                               25
Burdsall Avenue       All                                               25
Cambridge Avenue      All                                               25
Carlisle              Pleasant Ridge to Burdsall                        25
Carlisle              Burdsall to Thompson                              25
Charmaine Circle      All                                               25
Chelsea Drive         All                                               25
Cherrywood Drive      All                                               25
Clay Court            All                                               20
Coleman Road          All                                               25
Cook Book Lane        All                                               25
Cornell               All                                               25
Crisler Avenue        All                                               30
Dale Court            All                                               20
Dartmouth             All                                               25
Deauville Court       All                                               25
Diane Lane            All                                               25
E. Maple Avenue       All                                               25
E. Orchard Avenue     All                                               25
East Drive            All                                               20
Edenberry Drive       All                                               25
Edgewood              All                                               25
Floral Avenue         All                                               25
Fort Mitchell Avenue  All                                               25
Fortside Circle       All                                               25
Fortside Drive        All                                               25
Georgetown            All                                               25
Gettysburg            All                                               25
Grace Avenue          All                                               25
Grace Court           All                                               25
Grandview Drive       From its intersection with Beechwood Road to its  25
                      terminus with General Mitchell Park
Grandview Driv        From its intersection with Beechwood Road to its  30
                      intersection with Buttermilk Pike
Greenbriar Avenue     All                                               25
Hampton Place         All                                               25
Harvard Drive         All                                               25
Highland Avenue       All                                               25
Huckleberry           All                                               25
Idaho Avenue          All                                               25
Iris Road             All                                               25
Jerry's Lane          All                                               25
Kathleen Drive        All                                               25
Lawrence Drive        All                                               25
Leathers Road         All                                               25
Leslie Avenue         All                                               20
Longmeadow Lane       All                                               25
Louise Drive          All                                               25
Lucerne               All                                               25
Marquette Avenue      All                                               25
Miami Avenue          All                                               25
O'Brien Lane          All                                               25
Oak Street            All                                               25
Oxford                All                                               25
Page Road             All                                               20
Park Road             All                                               25
Plantation Drive      All                                               25
Pleasant Ridge Avenue All                                               25
Princeton             All                                               25
Provincial Drive      All                                               25
Requardt              All                                               25
Ridge Road            All                                               25
Ross Avenue           All                                               25
Rosslyn Court         All                                               20
Royal Drive           All                                               25
Seville Court         All                                               20
Sheffield Court       All                                               25
Silver Avenue         All                                               20
Summit Avenue         All                                               20
Summit Lane           All                                               25
Sunnymeade Avenue     All                                               25
Superior              All                                               25
Susan Lane            All                                               25
Thompson Avenue       All                                               25
Virginia Avenue       All                                               25
W. Maple Avenue       All                                               25
W. Orchard Avenue     All                                               25
Watch Hill Road       All                                               25
Wexford Lane          All                                               25
Williamsburg          All                                               25
Woodlawn              All                                               25
 
(Ord. 1989-8, passed 4-17-89; Am. Ord. 2003-03, passed 3-17-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
01, passed 2-3-14)
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to make the turns as listed below at the
following locations.
 
Locations                       Time Limitations              Restricted Turn
                                Consistent with designated
                                school drop- off and pick-up
Idaho Avenue onto Dixie Highway times as indicated by signage Left
                                along both the northbound and
                                southbound sides of Idaho
                                Avenue
Royal Drive at its intersection All hours of every day        U-Turn
with Buttermilk Pike
 
(Ord. 1995-15, passed 11-6-95; Am. Ord. 1997-17, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 2015-
17, passed 11-16-15; Am. Ord. 2023-05, passed 5-1-23)
SCHEDULE III. DISCHARGING OR PICK-UP OF PASSENGERS PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to discharge or pick-up passengers at the
following location.
 
Location                               Restrictions
                                       Consistent with designated school drop-
Along the right-of-way of Idaho Avenue off and pick-up times as indicated by
between Dixie Highway and Oak Street   signage along both the northbound and
                                       southbound sides of Idaho Avenue
 
(Ord. 1995-15, passed 11-6-95; Am. Ord. 2023-05, passed 5-1-23)
SCHEDULE IV. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to park in following location:
 
Street      Location
Summit Ave. From its intersection with Chelsea Drive to its intersection with
            Avon Drive
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 3-20-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V. STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs shall be placed at the following locations:
 
Street         Location
Highland       Northeast intersection with Oak Street
Avenue
Highland       Southwest intersection with Oak Street
Avenue
               Four signs at intersection with Kruempelman Drive and Ridge Road, the first
               sign facing east located on the north side of Saint John’s Road and on the
Saint John’s east side of Krempelman Drive; the second facing north located on the north
Road           side of Saint John’s Road and the west side of Kruempelman Drive; the third
               facing west located on the south side of Saint John’s Road and the west side
               of Ridge Road; and the fourth facing south located on the east side of Ridge
               Road and the south side of Saint John’s Road.
 
(Ord. 2003-18, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 2004-05, passed 5-3-04)
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   No vehicle shall park in the following locations for longer than the time
specified depending on location described below. Portions not listed in this
section shall have no parking time restrictions unless specifically provided
for in this chapter.
 
Street        Location                         Time limit
              Northbound portion between       2 hours from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00
              Requardt Lane and 2479 Dixie     p.m.
Dixie Highway Highway
              North bound portion between 2479 30 minutes from 10:00 a.m. to 7:
              Dixie Highway and Orphanage Road 00 p.m.
 
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 7-17-17; Am. Ord. 2023-05, passed 5-1-23)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Rabies control; maximum number of animals permitted
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.06   Animals running at large
   
90.07   Keeping vicious and wild animals prohibited
   
90.08   Keeping animals as public nuisances prohibited
   
90.09   Police to take possession; entry
   
90.10   Removing animals' excrement
   
90.11   Impounding
   
90.12   Interference prohibited
   
90.13   Authority
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ABANDON. Any animal left more than 48 hours without a person checking on the
condition of the animal(s) and/or providing food and water. Any animal left on
private property without the owner's consent or deserted or dumped on public
property or roadways.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature, specifically including, but not
limited to, a dog or cat.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The Kenton County Dog Authority which is an authority made
up of cities in Kenton County to control animals within city boundaries.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY CHAIRMAN. The person elected by the Kenton County
Dog Authority to over see its daily operation.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Kenton County Dog
Authority who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws and ordinances
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the designated city. An ANIMAL CONTROL
OFFICER shall be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of this chapter
only.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Kenton County Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISH-MENT. Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit or person engaged in the business of breeding, buying or selling
at retail or wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   DAY. For the purposes of this chapter, a 24-hour period shall constitute a
day.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of Kenton County Dog
Authority or any authorized representative thereof.
   LARGE WILD ANIMAL. Any normally undomesticated animal in excess of 50
pounds, not ordinarily tame and which is, by nature, an animal that lives apart
from human beings.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine or equine species.
   OWNER. Any person(s), corporation or other entity owning, keeping, harboring
or sheltering one or more animals.
   PERSON. Includes all natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies and other entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal(s) which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property,
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion;
      (6)   Repeatedly urinates or defecates on property not belonging to the
animal's owner or creates unsanitary conditions; and/or
   (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other manner.
   RESTRAINED. Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing (including invisible
fencing) designed to control the movement of the animal or secured by a leash
or chain. An animal shall be deemed to be RESTRAINED if it remains on the
premises of its owner or if it is accompanied by a responsible person and is
under that person's control.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal that is off the property of the owner,
custodian, possessor or harborer and is not restrained. Except that a hound or
other hunting dog which has been released from restraint for hunting purposes
shall be deemed to be under reasonable control of its owner or handler while
engaged in or returning from hunting, and, if the hunting dog becomes
temporarily lost from a pack or wanders from actual control or sight of its
owner or handler it shall not be deemed to be a violation.
   STRAY. Any animal running at large.
   VETERINARIAN. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. 
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals due to a known propensity to endanger life by an unprovoked
assault or bite which result in serious bodily harm;
      (2)   Any animal which when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places or private property;
      (3)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals;
      (4)   Any animal which bites multiple times or to the extent of causing
severe injury, and assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic
animals;
      (5)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting;
      (6)   Any animal which has bitten human beings twice; it shall be prima
facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the animal bites a human being or
domestic animal more than once in the same attack; and
      (7)   An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces any person assaulting its owner or
any person or animal who has tormented or abused it; or
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon itself, its owner or another person; or
         (c)   Any Police Canine unit in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
§ 90.02 RABIES CONTROL; MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person who owns or harbors a dog or cat
in the city to have the dog or cat inoculated with anti-rabic vaccine by a
veterinarian during the months of January through August of each year. Failure
to have the dog or cat so inoculated during the period shall subject each
person to the penalty hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Every owner or harborer of a dog or cat, upon obtaining the tag from a
veterinarian, shall immediately attach the same to the collar or harness of the
dog or cat to be worn by the dog or cat at all times. The certificate obtained
from the veterinarian shall, be retained by the owner or harborer of the dog or
cat for inspection by officials of the Police Department or other empowered
officials of the city.
   (C)   The anti-rabic provisions shall not apply to dogs or cats kept by
regularly chartered medical colleges or other educational or scientific
institutions to be used for scientific purposes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep at any one residence within the city
limits more than five dogs, cats or combination thereof with the exception that
the owner or person who has custody of a dog or cat may retain the puppies or
kittens, born of the dog or cat which exceed the permissible numbers set forth
in this chapter for a period of 12 weeks after the birth of the animals. Any
retention of dogs or cats in excess of the number specified in this chapter
after this 12-week period will constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Any person having custody of dogs or cats in excess of the number
permitted by this section shall have 30 days from the effective date of this
section in which to reduce the number of dogs and cats in their custody to
comply with this section.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in this section in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This subdivision shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities at institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10) For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) ('88 Code, § 90.03)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D
felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
('88 Code, § 90.04)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or
possession of any animal, shall keep the animal restrained or confined to the
premises and property of the owner, harborer or custodian, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or possession
of any animal shall permit, allow or suffer the animal:
      (1)   To run or be at large as hereinbefore defined;
      (2)   To go about or on the premises or property of any person within the
city without the permission of the other person.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07 KEEPING VICIOUS AND WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of vicious animals and/or large wild animals is
prohibited. No person shall keep any vicious animal and/or large wild animal,
whether owned by him, or not, on his property within the city.
   (B)   The foregoing section is a necessary control on the unrestrained
activities of vicious animals and/or large wild animals which threaten the
safety and pleasantness of streets, parks, sidewalks, yards and all areas of
the city and lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to a
violation thereof.
   (C)   The keeping of livestock is prohibited. No person shall keep any
livestock, whether owned by him, or not, on his property within the city,
except grand-fathered farms.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.08 KEEPING ANIMALS AS PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or possession of
any animal shall permit the animal to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood by reason of their howling, barking and whining, the stench they
cause, unsanitary conditions in which they are kept, or their disturbing of
people in the reasonable use and enjoyment of property where any of these
factors cause annoyance, discomfort or injury to the health and welfare of
persons in the neighborhood.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.09 POLICE TO TAKE POSSESSION; ENTRY.
   (A)   Any and all animals found at large within the city in violation of
this section, and all unlicensed dogs or cats, shall be taken into custody by
the Fort Mitchell Police Department and/or officers, Animal Control officers or
other empowered officials of the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, police officers of the city, Animal
Control officers or other empowered officials, shall have specific authority to
enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting or checking animals
to determine if they are properly licensed or abandoned and for the purpose of
taking into custody any unlicensed animal, any animal found at large within the
city, abandoned animal or any animal found upon the property of anyone other
than the owner of the animal.
   (C)   Police officers, Animal Control officers or other empowered officials
may use any reasonable means and force necessary to take control and possession
of animals found in violation of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
using tranquilizer guns or devices. Police, Animal Control officers or other
empowered officials shall not be liable, civilly or criminally, for animals
that unintentionally are injured or killed in the process of taking control or
possession of the animals as provided herein.
   (D)   The provisions of this section and other sections of this chapter are
in addition to the rights and powers granted to any peace officer or any other
officer under the provisions of KRS 257.100 and other provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes and not in limitation thereof.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
§ 90.10 REMOVING ANIMALS' EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall allow a dog or cat owned by the person or under his
custody, control or possession to be upon public property or upon the property
of another, absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the property,
without some device for the removal and containment of the dog's or cat's
excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any excrement deposited by any
dog or cat owned by that person or under his control on public property or
private property of another, absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 1995-9, passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   All dogs and cats taken into custody by police, Animal Control
officers or other empowered officials as hereinabove provided, shall be
impounded at the Kenton County Animal Shelter, except as provided in division
(B).
   (B)   If the dog or cat is found on or off the premises of its owner, but is
unlicensed or at large, the police officer, Animal Control officer or other
empowered officials may, in their discretion, not impound the animal, but in
lieu thereof issue a citation to the owner for owning an unlicensed animal or
permitting the animal to run at large. Citations can be city or state.
   (C)   All animals impounded shall be handled and/or disposed of by the
Kenton County Animal Shelter as provided by the regulations of that agency, by
state law or by county regulations, except that no dog or cat impounded by
police, Animal Control officers or other empowered officials of the city shall
be released to its owner without written authority from the Police Department
or other empowered officials of the city.
   (D)   On written complaint of any person that a domestic animal is rabid, or
that a domestic has bitten or attacked a person, the domestic animal shall be
seized and impounded forthwith. The District Court shall hold a hearing on the
written complaint and if the Court shall determine in its sound discretion that
the aforementioned domestic animal is mad or has in fact attacked a person,
then and in that event, the Judge may order the domestic animal to be destroyed
and examined by a competent scientist or veterinarian or impounded for
observation for a designated period of time, or make any other reasonable order
concerning the domestic animal.
   (E)   Any and all expenses incurred by the city in keeping and housing of
any domestic animal after being so seized and impounded shall be chargeable to
the owner or keeper of the domestic animal.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
§ 90.12 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent police officers or other empowered officials of this city discharging
their duties as herein prescribed.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.13 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may authorize entering into an approved contract with other
cities in the enforcement of this chapter or in the alternative may enter into
an employment contract with either an organization or an individual to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
§ 90.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, other than the
provisions of §
90.03, shall be fined not less than $10 and not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both, for each offense.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense
under §
90.03(A) of this section arising from the person's treatment of an equine, the
court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person, in
addition to fines and imprisonment:
            1.   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
            2.   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
         (b)   If a person's ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division 2. of this division, the court may order the
sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person violating § 90.09 shall be fined not less than $10 and not
more than $500. (Ord. 1995-9, passed 8-7-95)
   (D)   Each day that the violation of this chapter continues shall be a
separate and distinct offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 12-4-95)
   (E)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (F)   If a citation for a violation of any provision of this chapter, except
for those offenses included in §
90.07, is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the civil
fine to be imposed for each offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for
the second offense, and $210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (G)   If a citation for any provision of this chapter, except for those
offenses included in §
90.07, is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board is
required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the discretion of the
Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from $60 to $600 for the
second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for
the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (H)   If a citation for a violation of §
90.07 is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the civil fine
will be imposed for each offense shall be $200.
   (I)   If a citation for a violation of §
90.07 is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board is required,
the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the discretion of the Board
shall be from $40 to $400 for the first offense, from $80 to $800 for the
second offense, and from $200 to $2,000 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (J)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
   (K)   Any violation of §§
90.06 through
90.08 shall result in written notification to the residential property owner to
be sent via U.S. Mail to the mailing address listed with the Kenton County
Clerk.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-17-23)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
91.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
91.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
91.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
91.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
91.06   Destruction of fireworks
   
91.07   Sale to and unsupervised use of fireworks by minors prohibited
Fire Prevention
   
91.20   Blasting permit
   
91.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
91.22   Possession of explosives
   
91.23   Flammable liquids
   
91.24   Reserved
   
91.25   Security caps for buildings with sprinkler systems
Open Burning
   
91.35   Restrictions for open burning
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.45   Enforcement powers of fire fighters
   
91.46   Abatement of fire hazards
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks that are suitable for use by the public,
designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion and comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic
contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this subchapter. Some
small devices designed to produce audible effects are included, such as
whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. CONSUMER FIRE- WORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that have been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. It may be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, stars, components producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube.  A package kit containing a
cardboard, high- density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a
kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending out
of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily
to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration or
detonation. This term includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing
more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells
containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display
pieces which exceed the limits for classification as consumer fireworks.
Display fireworks are defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, and are classified as Class B explosives by
the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets
the definition of “consumer” or “display” fireworks as set forth in the U.S.
Department of Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
“Fireworks” does not include:
      (1)   Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations, and packed and
shipped according to the regulations, are not considered to be fireworks and
shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times.
      (2)   Model rockets and model rocket motors designed, sold and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not considered to be
fireworks.
      (3)   Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of sulfur,
charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being designed for producing
audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS. Items that are not classified as consumer
fireworks by the U.S. Department of Transportation and their transportation,
storage, retail sale, possession, sale and use shall be allowed throughout the
state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (B)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in the definition of “consumer fireworks” above are
legal for retail sale provided all applicable federal and state requirements
with respect thereto are met.
      (2)   Items described in the definition of “display fireworks” are not
legal for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this
chapter for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may
be sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Novelties and noise makers are legal for retail sale provided all
applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
('88 Code, § 93.01)
§ 91.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (2)    COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (3)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (4)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (5)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
areas shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (6)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A)(1) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-
partnership, non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for
sale, selling at retail, keeping with the intent to sell, possessing or using
consumer fireworks, as defined in §
91.01 of this chapter and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715
(KRS 227.710) ('88 Code, § 93.02)   
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
91.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
91.01 may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept with the intent to sell,
only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person or business intending to sell consumer fireworks shall
register annually with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS
227.715, and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at
the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
91.01 to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(6) - (8))
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under § 91.02 unless the applicant shall give bond
or evidence of liability insurance deemed adequate by the official to whom
application for the permit is made, in a sum not less than $1,000,000. However,
the appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger
amount if in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the
payment of all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to
property by reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the
licensee, his agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) ('88 Code, § 93.03)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry, gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate, toy snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party
novelties, which contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of
explosive mixture, or shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms,
blank cartridges for a show, theater or for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports, for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind
of fireworks provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of
the state.
(KRS 227.730) ('88 Code, § 93.04)
§ 91.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A)(1) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 through 227.750 shall restrict a local
government from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks
within their jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) ('88 Code, § 93.05)
§ 91.07 SALE TO AND UNSUPERVISED USE OF FIREWORKS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, “minor” shall be defined as any
person under the age of 18 years or, as may be otherwise phrased, any person of
the age of 17 years or under.
   (B)   No person shall sell any fireworks as defined in KRS 227.700, consumer
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702 or novelties and trick noisemakers as
defined in KRS 227.704 to a minor within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use fireworks as defined in KRS
227.700, consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702 or novelties and trick
noisemakers as defined in KRS 227.704 without adult supervision.
   (D)   Outdoor fireworks displays must meet the Requirements of NFPA
(National Fire Protection Association) 1123, Current Edition 2022, Code for
Fireworks Display.
('88 Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 1989-15, passed 6-19-89; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-
2-22)
Penalty, see § 91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting a permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
('88 Code, § 93.20)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
('88 Code, § 93.21)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.22 POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   No person shall keep within the city any dynamite, nitroglycerine or gun
cotton. Persons engaged in blasting may keep a sufficient quantity while
engaged in their work, but all surplus must be removed from the city at the
close of working hours.
('88 Code, § 93.22)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.23 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   Gasoline kept in barrels and tanks holding more than two gallons shall
not be kept in any house or closed room, but may be kept in larger quantities
in an open shed outside of a building.
   (B)   No person shall purchase or sell gasoline, naphtha, benzol or lacquer
thinner in any glass container.
('88 Code, § 93.23) (Ord. 1957-2, passed 5-22-57)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.24 [RESERVED].
Ed. Note:
   Section
91.24 regarding Sale of Collodion or Acetone in Glass Containers repealed by
Ordinance 2022-08, adopted May 2, 2022.
§ 91.25 SECURITY CAPS FOR BUILDINGS WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   Any building located in the city which is protected by an automatic
sprinkler system or standpipe system and which the fire department connection
to such system is exposed to the public, shall have installed thereon a fire
department connection security cap. The fire department connection security cap
shall be of a type approved by the Fire Chief of the city or his or her
designee.
(Ord. 2003-05, passed 5-5-03)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.35 RESTRICTIONS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning prohibited. No person, firm or corporation shall build
any outdoor fire within the city limits for the purpose of open burning
including land clearing. An exemption via burn permit may be issued for parcels
of land which are a minimum of ten acres. The exemption shall be issued, in
writing, by the Fire Chief. Exemptions will not be allowed during the Kentucky
Open Burning Ban period of May 1 to September 30 each year.
   (B)   Recreational fires. Burn permit not required.
      (1)   Location. No recreational fire shall be closer than ten feet from
any building, shed, garage, fence, or any other combustible materials. The
location shall be no closer than ten feet from many adjoining property line.
      (2)   Fire pits.
         (a)   Below ground fire pits. Any fire pit built below ground shall be
a minimum depth of ten inches and a maximum diameter of three feet. The fire
may not extend more than two feet above the fire pit. The fire pit shall be
surrounded on the outside, above ground, by non-combustible material such as,
but not limited to, concrete block, bricks, or rocks. No burn barrels allowed.
         (b)   Portable fire pits. Portable fire pits are defined as devices
commercially designed to control outdoor wood fires and may be used in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (3)   Materials for burning. Materials for recreational fires shall
consist of clean dry/seasoned wood that is unpainted and untreated. Material
shall not include rubbish, garbage, trash, leaves, brush or garden waste or any
material coated with rubber, plastic, leather, or petroleum- based materials
and may not contain any flammable or combustible liquids.
      (4)   Attendance. All recreational fires must always be attended to by a
responsible person until extinguished.
      (5)   Complaint. Complaints received by the Fire or Police Departments
regarding smoke, ash or noxious odors infringing on adjacent properties will
require that such fires be immediately extinguished.
   (C)   The penalties for any violation of this section shall be as set forth
in §
91.99. In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who fails to maintain
a fire in accordance with the applicable city ordinances or negligently allows
such a fire to burn out of control shall pay any and all costs incurred by the
city or any other municipality responding under mutual-aid for any fire,
police, ambulance or other related service provided as a result of the party's
failure to comply with said ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-17, passed 11-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 2-5-18; Am. Ord. 2022-
08, passed 5-2-22)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.45 ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF FIRE FIGHTERS.
   All officers of the Fire Department are hereby vested with necessary special
police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
('88 Code, § 93.45) (Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-2-22)
§ 91.46 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   All persons served with a written order to abate any fire hazard, shall
comply with that order promptly and upon compliance, shall notify the Fire
Chief or designee for reinspection.
('88 Code, § 93.47) (Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 5- 2-22)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
91.02 or
91.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of §§
91.01 to
91.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
91.07 (B) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 or imprisoned in the
county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days. Any person convicted of violating
the provisions of §
91.07 (C) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500. (Ord. 1989-15, passed 6-
19-89)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.35 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $200. (Am. Ord. 1987-6, passed 4-20-87)
('88 Code, § 93.99) (Am. Ord. 2017-17, passed 11-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed
2-5-18)
   (E)   Any other violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil
offense, pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (F)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (G)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (H)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 2017-17, passed 11-6-17)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Chronic Nuisance
   
92.15   Chronic nuisance property; violations
   
92.16   Definitions
   
92.17   Procedure; city enforcement
   
92.18   Procedure; resident enforcement
   
92.19   Commencement of actions; remedies; burden of proof
   
92.20   Summary closure
   
92.21   Fees for service
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   BOCA Basic Property Maintenance Code, §
150.02
   Kentucky Building Code, Plumbing Code, Standards of Safety, see §
150.01
   Littering, see
Ch. 130
   Rules of construction; definitions, see §
10.02
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see KRS 82.700 to 82.725
   Code Enforcement Boards, see KRS 65.8801 to 65.8838
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and the definitions in Chapter 10, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any vehicle as detached from the
vehicle as a whole.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Building Inspector, Code Administrator, Zoning
Administrator, police officer, or any other officer designation by the City
Council or the one responsible for code enforcement.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping for any person.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to operate on a public highway under its own
power due to defective or missing parts, and existing in the condition for a
period of not less than ten consecutive days, or a motor vehicle which may not
be legally operated because it does not have a valid license plate as required
by state law.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance per §§ 92.02 and 92.03.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition, having defective or missing
parts, or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance, on or off a public highway.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of want of repair, defects in drainage, plumbing, lighting, ventilation
or construction, infection with contagious disease, infestation with rodents,
or the existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause
sickness among occupants of the dwelling.
   VEHICLE. Any style or type of vehicle used for the conveyance of persons or
property, including motor vehicles.
('88 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 1991-18, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 1999-15, passed
12-6-99)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances shall be treated as such and be proceeded against as is
provided in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
('88 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 1999-15, passed 12-6-99)
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a nuisance to develop thereon.
The following conditions, in addition to those set out in the Basic Property
Maintenance Code of the city under §§
92.02 or
150.02 of this code of ordinances, are declared to be public nuisances and are
prohibited:
   (A)   Dangerous trees, buildings, or objects adjoining street. Any tree,
building, house or structure or other object standing in such a condition that
it will, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or
property of, or cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property upon the
public streets or public ways adjoining the premises, by reason of the falling
or collapse of the tree, building, house or structure or other objects or any
parts thereof by the falling thereof or of parts thereof. Any building, house
or structure which is so out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a
fire hazard liable to catch on fire or communicate fire, or which due to
inadequate maintenance or neglect endangers the public health, safety, or
materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of
property in the city.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any property of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, makes the property unfit for human habitation, or
materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of
other property in the city because of the danger that it will catch or
communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or blow
rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another.
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the city uncomfortable or impossible. Also
included are emissions from any furnace, incinerator, or heating unit of smoke,
soot, or ashes of a kind or degree which could damage property or constitute a
health hazard to the people of the city.
   (D)   Loud and unnecessary noise.  
      (1)   Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the enjoyment
of dwellings or other uses of property in the city by interfering with the
ordinary comforts of human existence, the operation or causing the operation of
any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, drum, horn, piano, radio, colliope,
phonograph or other sound-producing or sound-amplifying instrument, or the
calling, shouting, or in any other way or manner creating noise or sound in
such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighborhood or to
interfere with the transaction of business or other ordinary pursuits. Nothing
herein shall be construed to affect the usual and reasonable operation of
railroads, electric railways, or motor buses, prohibit the reasonable use of
automobiles and ordinary noises attendant thereto, athletic contests or lawful
public meetings, parades or celebrations.
      (2)   Without limiting the prohibitions contained in §
92.03(D)(1), it shall be a prima facie public nuisance for any person to create
a noise measured at street level in excess of the following:
         (a)   Seventy-five decibels at any time.
         (b)   Fifty decibels at any time from Sunday at 10:00 p.m. to the
following Friday at 7:00 a.m. between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and the following
7:00 a.m.
         (c)   Fifty decibels at any time from Friday 7:00 a.m. to the
following Sunday at 10:00 p.m. between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and the
following 7:00 a.m.
         (d)   Fifty decibels for more than two hours during any 24-hour
period.
         (e)   Forty decibels for more than six hours during any 24-hour
period.
      (3)   The Police Department shall be equipped with standard meters for
measuring noise. The noise level readings may be used as evidence to provide a
public nuisance and a violation, but are not required if there is sufficient
other evidence to provide a public nuisance or violation of this section.
   (E)   Storage of explosives, hazardous or combustible material. The storage
of explosives, hazardous or combustible material which creates a safety hazard
to other property or persons in the city or the storage of such material in
unmarked containers.
   (F)   Weeds and grass. The accumulation in piles, bundles or heaps, or the
excessive growth of weeds, grass, plants or other vegetation other than trees
or shrubs and cultivated flowers and gardens. Unless otherwise provided,
“excessive” shall mean growth to a height of ten inches or more.
   (G)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (H)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks.  
      (1)   Street and sidewalk clearance. The growing and maintenance of trees
with less than 14 feet clearance over public streets or right-of-ways less than
eight feet clearance over public sidewalks.
      (2)   Sight distance at arterial highway/street intersections. The
growing and maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height or trees
with less than five feet clearance above street level, within a sight triangle
consisting of the area between the intersection of the pavements of the
arterial highway and the street; along the arterial highway a point 25 feet
from the intersection of the pavement of the arterial highway and the street
and along the street the greater of a point 25 feet from the intersection of
the pavement of the arterial highway and the street or, if there is a sidewalk
on the arterial highway, a point on the street measured 18 feet along the
street from the front of the sidewalk on the arterial highway.
      (3)   Sight distance at street/street intersections. The growing and
maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height or trees with less
than five feet clearance above street level within a sight triangle consisting
of the area between points measured 25 feet along both streets from the
intersection of the pavement edges.
      (4)   Sight distance at street/driveway intersections. The growing and
maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height or trees with less
than five feet clearance over the street level within a sight triangle
consisting of the area between points measured 25 feet along the street
pavement edge and ten feet along the driveway pavement edge.
   (I)   Keeping of animals or birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the city. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (J)   Junk; scrap metal. The open storage of automobile parts or scrap metal
within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city for such
purposes.
   (K)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles. The parking,
storage, leaving or permitting the parking, storage or leaving of any vehicle
of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, rusted, junked,
partially dismantled or inoperative condition, whether attended or not, within
the city for a period of time in excess of seven days on the premises of any
“service station” or in excess of 72 hours anywhere else in the city, except in
a completely enclosed building.
   (L)   Certain trucks and other vehicles. The parking or keeping of any
commercial vehicle (truck with a dump body, cargo or box body, service body,
utility body or stake body) with or without commercial placards or any truck
with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 12,000 pounds or any trailer,
recreational vehicle, camper, boat or similar type of equipment with a length
in excess of 18 feet at any place located within a residential district zone
within the city, except in a completely enclosed garage. Provided that the
Zoning Administrator, City Administrator, the City Clerk, or a police officer
may issue a temporary parking permit to allow a trailer, recreational vehicle,
camper, boat, or similar type of equipment with a length in excess of 18 feet
to be parked on a paved surface in a residential district zone within the city
for loading or unloading operations, maintenance, or cleaning in preparation
for or incidental to a vacation or other legitimate recreational use. A maximum
of eight permits may be issued under this division (L) and division (M) below
per residence within the city per calendar year, for a period not to exceed 72
hours. Permits shall not be issued on consecutive days so as to extend the
parking period beyond 72 hours and a minimum of seven days shall pass before
the issuance of each permit. The permit(s) shall be prominently displayed on
each trailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat, or similar type of equipment
indicating the periods and times for which the temporary parking is permitted.
Each trailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat, or similar type of equipment
shall require a separate permit.
   (M)   Certain trailers, recreational vehicles, campers, boats or similar
type equipment. The parking or keeping of any trailer, recreational vehicle,
camper, boat or similar type of equipment with a length of not more than 18
feet, on other than a paved surface in other than the rear yard any place
located in a residential zone in the city, except in a completely enclosed
building, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Adjustment in conformity
with the Zoning Regulations. In no case shall more than one of the
aforementioned vehicles or similar type equipment be permitted outside of an
enclosed building on any lot or parcel of land. Provided that the Zoning
Administrator, City Administrator, the City Clerk, or a police officer may
issue a temporary parking permit to allow a trailer, recreational vehicle,
camper, boat, or similar type of equipment with a length of not more than 18
feet to be parked on a paved surface in a residential district zone within the
City for loading or unloading operations, maintenance, or cleaning in
preparation for or incidental to a vacation or other legitimate recreational
use. A maximum of eight permits may be issued under this division (M) and
division (L) above per residence within the city per calendar year, for a
period not to exceed 72 hours. Permits shall not be issued on consecutive days
so as to extend the parking period beyond 72 hours and a minimum of seven days
shall pass before the issuance of each permit. The permit shall be prominently
displayed on the trailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat, or similar type
of equipment indicating the periods and times for which the temporary parking
is permitted. Each such trailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat, or similar
type of equipment shall require a separate permit.
   (N)   Barking dogs. Harboring or keeping any animal of the canine kind which
by loud and frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping, shall cause
serious annoyance or disturbance of adjacent residents in the neighborhood.
   (O)   Electrified fence. The use, maintenance, or installation of
electrified fences, regardless of the source of power, wattage, voltage or
amperage.
('88 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 1991-18, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 1999-15, passed
12-6-99; Am. Ord. 2002-01, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 6-23-14; Am.
Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-15-18) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or manage-ment of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard or source of filth to develop or exist thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, it shall be the duty of
the Code Enforcement Officer to serve or cause to be served a notice on the
owner or occupant thereof on which there is kept or maintained any nuisance in
violation of the provisions of this chapter and to demand the abatement of the
nuisance in within five days of the service of the notice unless the nuisance
constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well-being of the community.
If such danger is present, the nuisance shall be abated within 24 hours of
notice.
      (1)   Notice shall be served upon persons by hand delivery or the notice
shall be sent by certified mail to the last known address of the owner of the
property as it appears on the current assessment roll. If the whereabouts of
the persons is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the city shall make an
affidavit to that effect, and the serving of notice may be made by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation for two consecutive days.
      (2)   A copy of the notice shall be posted on a conspicuous place on the
premises and shall be recorded in the office of the Kenton County Clerk.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of the property to comply
with the notice, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to send employees,
or other persons or firms onto the property to remedy the nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense of the abatement, and the expense shall be charged to
and paid by the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to
state law and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the Kenton
County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be
enforced by judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien,
including all interest, civil penalties and other charges and the city may
bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The City Attorney is authorized and
directed to institute such proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court
having jurisdiction in the matter, against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
   (E)   In addition to the abatement procedures set forth in division (A)
above, any police officer may serve a notice of the existence of a nuisance on
the owner, occupant or person having control or management of any land within
the city upon which the nuisance exists or upon the person creating the
nuisance as set forth in §§ 92.02 and 92.03. If the person receiving the notice
does not abate the nuisance within the time and as provided under division (A),
a citation for violation of this section may be issued citing the person so
served to appear in the Kenton County District Court.
('88 Code, § 92.04) (Am. Ord. 1991-18, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 1999-15,
passed 12-6-99)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
('88 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 1999-15, passed 12-6-99)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of any person,
business, or corporation conducting the business upon the premises where the
nuisance exists.
   (B)   The License Inspector shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee, or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
('88 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 1999-15, passed 12-6-99)
CHRONIC NUISANCE
§ 92.15 CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any property within the city, that becomes a chronic nuisance
property, as defined herein, is in violation of this chapter and subject to its
remedies.
   (B)   Any person who permits property under his or her ownership or control
to be a chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, shall be in violation of
this subchapter and subject to its remedies.
   (C)   No person, property, or business shall violate any term or condition
of an agreed abatement plan entered into under this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8-23-10; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 8-16-11)
§ 92.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.  Property on which three or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 60 day period or on which 12 or
more nuisance activities exist or have occurred during any 12 month period.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Fort Mitchell.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A Code Enforcement Officer as defined in KRS
65.8805.
   CONTROL. The authority to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
property, or conduct what occurs on a property.
   GOOD CAUSE. Circumstances beyond the ability of a person acting with
reasonable care and diligence to control.
   NUISANCE ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Any of the following activities, behaviors or conduct:
         (a)   Harassment. as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080.
         (b)   Public intoxication or alcohol intoxication, as defined in KRS
525.100 or KRS 222.202.
         (c)   Disorderly conduct as defined in KRS 525.055 or KRS 525.060.
         (d)   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040, or 507.050.
         (e)   Rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, indecent
exposure, or unlawful use of an electronic device to induce a minor to engage
in sexual activities, as defined in KRS 510.010 through 510.155.
         (f)   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic threatening,
criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as defined in KRS
508.010 through 508.160.
         (g)   Burglary or criminal trespass, as defined in KRS 511.010 through
511.090.
         (h)   Criminal mischief, as defined in KRS 512.010 through 512.060.
         (i)   Arson, as defined in KRS 513.010 through 513.040.
         (j)   Theft, as defined in KRS 514.010 through 514.090.
         (k)   Receiving stolen property, as defined in KRS 514.110.
         (l)   Robbery, as defined in KRS 515.010 through 515.030.
         (m)   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting prostitution,
or human trafficking, as defined in KRS 529.010 through 529.110.
         (n)   Endangering the welfare of a minor or unlawful transaction with
a minor as defined in KRS 530.060 through 530.080.
         (o)   Distribution of obscene matter promoting sale of obscenity, or
voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110.
         (p)   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300 through
531.370.
         (q)   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010
through 218A.1444.
         (r)   Weapons related offenses, as defined in KRS 527.010 through
527.210.
         (s)   Violations of protection orders, as defined in KRS 403.763.
         (t)   Alcohol related offenses, as defined in Chapter 111.
         (u)   Noise violations, as defined in § 92.03.
         (v)   Any violation of any ordinance of the city, or a violation of
any state or federal law, statute or regulation.
         (w)   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the
activities, behaviors or conduct listed in this section.
      (2)   To qualify, all nuisance activities must be based on either:
         (a)   Personal observation of a police officer, or code enforcement
officer; or
         (b)   A determination by a police officer, or code enforcement
officer, either after an investigation or following a sworn statement of a
person who personally witnessed the alleged incident that the alleged nuisance
activities did, in fact, occur.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON. Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company or other entity capable of owning,
occupying or using property in the city.
   PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY. Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize or visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or any
person present on a property. PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY includes,
without limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, the person in charge, or an owner of a
property.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control. When an owner of the property and the occupant
of a property under his or her ownership or control are not the same person,
the person in charge shall include both such persons.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police for the City of Fort Mitchell.
   POLICE OFFICER. Shall mean a police officer as defined in KRS 15.420.
   PROPERTY. Any property, including land and that which is affixed, incidental
or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or residence,
parking area, loading area, landscaping, building or structure or any separate
part, unit or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether or not
permanent. For property consisting of more than one unit, property may be
limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring, but includes areas of the property used
in common by all units of property including without limitation other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading and
landscaping.
   RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD. A real property owner of property upon which is
located one or more dwelling units leased or otherwise rented to tenants solely
for residential purposes, or a mobile home park or other permanent or semi
permanent site at which lots are leased or otherwise rented to tenants for the
parking of a manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle that is
used solely for residential purposes. RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD does not include the
owner of a hotel, motel, or a college or university dormitory.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8-23-10)
§ 92.17 PROCEDURE; CITY ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the Police Chief, a code enforcement officer or the designee of
the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Board receives information documenting the
existence of activities which qualify as nuisance activities:
      (1)   The Police Chief, a code enforcement officer shall independently
review such report(s) to determine whether a chronic nuisance property as
defined in § 92.16 is established by the information.
      (2)   Upon a determination that a chronic nuisance property exists, the
Police Chief, or code enforcement officer shall issue a notice of violation
under § 41.05(B) to the person in charge that the property has been determined
to be a chronic nuisance property and request an abatement plan from the person
in charge.
      (3)   The notice to the person in charge, shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         (b)   A statement that the Police Chief, or code enforcement officer
has determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to this determination.
         (c)   A demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to
the Police Chief, or code enforcement officer by either describing the actions
the person in charge intends to take to abate the nuisance activities,
(abatement plan), or indicating good cause as to why the person in charge
cannot abate the nuisance activities.
         (d)   That an agreed abatement plan must be reached with the Police
Chief, or code enforcement officer within 30 days from the date of the notice
of determination of chronic nuisance property.
         (e)   That if the nuisance activities are not abated and good cause
for failure to abate is not shown, a citation under § 41.05(B) may be issued.
         (f)   That permitting the existence of a chronic nuisance property is
a violation of this chapter.
         (g)   That the above remedies are in addition to those otherwise
provided by law.
      (4)   The notice may be delivered in person, or sent registered mail with
return receipt requested. The notice may be delivered to the property itself,
or to the mailing address of the owner of the property as listed on the city
tax roll, or to any other address that is likely to give the person in charge
notice of the determination of the Police Chief, or code enforcement officer.
      (5)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate or
otherwise affect the proceedings under this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Chief, or code enforcement officer may issue a citation
where:
      (1)   The person in charge fails to respond within ten days from the date
of the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police
Chief, or code enforcement officer; or
      (2)   No agreeable written abatement plan is reached within 30 days from
the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police Chief,
or code enforcement officer and the person in charge fails to establish one of
the affirmative defenses provided in § 92.17(F) or (G); or
      (3)   The person in charge fails to abate the nuisance activities from
the property as required by the agreed abatement plan; or
      (4)   The person in charge fails to comply continuously with all
conditions of the written abatement plan for a period of one year.
   (C)   When the person in charge includes both a person with actual or
constructive possession of the property and a legal owner of the property, both
people must agree to any proposed abatement plan within the time allotted under
subsection (A)(3)(d) of this section. Failure of both to agree to a proposed
abatement plan shall result in a finding by the Police Chief, or code
enforcement officer that the abatement plan is not agreeable under subsection
(B)(2) of this section.
   (D)   Failure to respond, failure to abate the nuisance activities, or
failure to propose an abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of
cooperativeness of the person in charge. Failure to execute or comply with any
abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of good faith in
mitigating or correcting the situation.
   (E)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Police Chief or code
enforcement officer as required in § 92.17, conduct or statements made in
connection with the response do not constitute an admission that any nuisance
activities have occurred or are occurring. This subsection does not require
exclusion of any evidence that is otherwise admissible or offered for any other
purpose.
   (F)   Residential landlord affirmative defense. A residential landlord has
an absolute defense to a charge under this ordinance if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the basis for the charge is the actions or
omissions of their tenant(s) and the residential landlord establishes all of
the following:
      (1)   That the residential landlord undertakes a reasonably appropriate
screening process for prospective tenants including diligence into the criminal
background of prospective tenants, which shall include, at a minimum, an online
search and inquiry with the tenant into their criminal background;
      (2)   That the residential landlord include language in their leases with
tenants that provides that violations of federal, state, or local laws by
tenants or their guests is grounds for eviction with 30 days or less notice;
      (3)   That the residential landlord, upon written notice by the city that
a nuisance activity has occurred on their property within the prior thirty
days, commences an eviction action against the tenant whose action or omission
forms the basis of the charge, and diligently prosecutes that action to
completion, irrespective of any ultimate ruling by a court on the merits of
that action. A residential landlord shall not be responsible for prosecuting a
forcible entry and detainer action against the tenant or their guests whose
action or omission forms the basis of the charge if the city fails to give the
notice provided in this section.
   (G)   Good cause affirmative defense. Any person charged under this
subchapter has an absolute defense to a charge under this subchapter if they
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that:
      (1)   The person charged has taken all appropriate actions to deter and
prevent the nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge on their
property;
      (2)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
the result of the actions or omissions of person charged, their authorized
guests or any other person residing in their household; and
      (3)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
permitted by the person charged.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8-23-10)
§ 92.18 PROCEDURE; RESIDENT ENFORCEMENT.
   City residents, affected by an alleged chronic nuisance property, may elect
to provide a sworn complaint to the city Chief of Police, or code enforcement
officer which may be used by the Chief of Police or Code Enforcement Officer in
their enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8-23-10)
§ 92.19 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS; REMEDIES; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In the event a citation is issued for a chronic nuisance property, the
person in charge shall have those rights and shall otherwise be subject to the
procedures and provisions set forth in Chapter 41 this code. If the Code
Enforcement Board determines that the property is a chronic nuisance property,
then it shall issue such fine and/or take such other action consistent with the
provisions of Chapter 41 of this code.
   (B)   In addition, whenever the Code Enforcement Board determines that a
chronic nuisance exists, the Board shall forward such determination to the
Mayor of the city.
      (1)   The Mayor shall send or deliver notice of this determination to the
current owner listed with the Property Valuation Administrator or to the
address where the offense(s) occurred. The notice shall notify the owner or
person in charge that the Mayor intends to take action concerning the possible
suspension or revocation of the occupational license. The notice shall likewise
indicate that the owner or person in charge may request a show cause hearing
before the Mayor. The request shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the
City Clerk within seven days of the receipt of the notice and the hearing shall
be scheduled not sooner than seven days after the receipt of the request.
      (2)   At the show cause hearing, the owner or person in charge may
present evidence, under oath, as to why the occupational license should not be
suspended or revoked. The hearing shall not be governed by the Rules of
Evidence or the Rules of Civil Procedure. The Mayor shall receive only relevant
and material evidence. All evidence received shall be given such weight as the
Mayor deems it is entitled after consideration of any objections that may be
made. The Mayor shall receive the evidence that a reasonable mind might accept
as adequate to support a conclusion.
      (3)   The hearing shall be recorded. A request for a copy of the
recording of the hearing must be made in writing. The requesting party must pay
a reasonable fee for the recording as determined by the City Clerk’s office.
The Mayor has no obligation to preserve recordings beyond 30 days of the
hearing date.
      (4)   The burden shall be upon the owner or person in charge to prove,
beyond a preponderance of the evidence, that the occupational license should
not be suspended or revoked. The city or its representative may also be
represented and may present evidence, under oath, as to why the occupational
license should be suspended or revoked. The existence of nuisance activities
shall be conclusively determined as a consequence of the finding of the Code
Enforcement Board and shall not be in dispute.
      (5)   Factors the Mayor may consider in a determination as to whether to
suspend or revoke an occupational license include the following: the frequency
of nuisance activities, the duration the nuisance activities have occurred, the
impact on the surrounding community and residents from the nuisance activities,
good faith efforts by the owner and person in charge to end any nuisance
activities, past and present compliance with any agreed abatement plan(s),
cooperation with the city and its officials regarding the existence and
attempted abatement of any nuisance activities, and any other factors deemed
appropriate in aggravation or mitigation by the Mayor.
      (6)   The Mayor shall enter findings of fact, conclusions of law and an
order determining that no action should occur with respect to the occupational
license, that the occupational license should be suspended, or that the
occupational license should be revoked. Any action taken by the Mayor may be
appealed within 30 days to the Kenton County Circuit Court, and the appeal
shall be based on the record before the Mayor and subject to an abuse of
discretion standard.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8- 23-10; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 8-16-11)
§ 92.20 SUMMARY CLOSURE.
   The city, through its City Attorney, may also initiate a summary closure
proceeding in the Kenton County District and/or Circuit Court. Such an action
shall be based on evidence showing that nuisance activities exist or have
occurred on the property and that action is necessary to avoid a threat to
public welfare and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of summary closure
shall be governed by the provisions of applicable Kentucky law for obtaining
temporary restraining orders. In the event of summary closure, the city is not
required to comply with the notification procedures set forth in §
92.17(A)(3). As part of any summary closure order, the district/circuit court
may also revoke or suspend the occupational license of any person conducting
any business upon the property where the chronic nuisance exists.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 8-23-10)
§ 92.21 FEES FOR SERVICE.
   In addition and cumulative to the other remedies of this chapter, any person
in charge, as that term is defined in §
92.16, who has violated and been issued three or more citations under this
chapter, one of which must be within one calendar year of the call for service,
may be charged by the city a fee of $100 for each call for service for either
the Police or Fire Departments, or both, to their property, as that term is
defined in §
92.16, unless such call for service was made by the person in charge and that
person identified him or herself as such. Failure to pay such fees within 30
days of being invoiced for them shall result in interest accruing on such fees
at a rate of 10% per annum, shall further constitute a lien on the property,
shall constitute separate and distinct nuisance activity as that term is
defined in §
92.16, and shall be a further violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 7-1-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. ('88 Code, § 92.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
   (F)   Not withstanding the civil penalties or the general criminal penalties
set forth in this §
92.99, whoever violates any provision of the Fort Mitchell Chronic Nuisance
Ordinance, as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500 and/or imprisoned up to 12 months for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   If a citation for a violation of any provision of the Fort Mitchell
Chronic Nuisance Ordinance, as set forth in §§
92.15 through
92.20 is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the civil fine
to be imposed for each offense shall be $250 for the first offense, $500 for
the second offense, $1,000 for the third offense, $2,500 for the fourth
offense, and $7,500 for the fifth offense and any offense thereafter. Each
day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is requested, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $100 to $500 for the first offense, from
$250 to $1,500 for the second offense, from $500 to $2,500 for the third
offense, from $1,000 to $5,000 for the fourth offense, and from $5,000 to
$10,000 for the fifth offense and any offense thereafter. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 1999-15, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 2010-
03, passed 8-23-10)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   [Reserved]
Excavations and Construction
   
93.10   Definitions
   
93.11   [Reserved]
   
93.12   [Reserved]
   
93.13   Barriers around excavations
   
93.14   Warning lights
   
93.15   Sidewalk construction
   
93.16   [Reserved]
   
93.17   [Reserved]
   
93.18   [Reserved]
   
93.19   [Reserved]
   
93.20   [Reserved]
   
93.21   [Reserved]
   
93.22   [Reserved]
   
93.23   [Reserved]
   
93.24   [Reserved]
   
93.25   Application for permit to cut, excavate, or bore in the city right-of-
way from the city required
   
93.26   Reconstruction of street segment in certain cases; waivers, and
restoration to be completed promptly and expeditiously
   
93.27   Permit fee and performance guaranty required
   
93.28   Emergency repairs
   
93.29   Warranty by permit holder
   
93.30   Working conditions and regulations
Obstructions
   
93.35   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.36   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.37   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
93.38   Removal of ice, snow and other debris
Awnings and Marquees
   
93.50   Awning regulations
   
93.51   Marquee regulations
   
93.52   Permit, sketch required
House Numbering
   
93.65   Numbers required on all houses
   
93.66   Numbering on north/south streets
   
93.67   Numbering on east/west streets west of Dixie Highway
   
93.68   Numbering on east/west streets east of Dixie Highway
   
93.69   Spacing between numbers
   
93.70   Number sequence per block
   
93.71   Altering, defacing numbers prohibited
Road and Bridge Projects
   
93.85   Public hearing required
   
93.86   Notice requirements
   
93.87   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
93.88   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
93.89   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
93.90   Exemptions from hearing requirement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 [RESERVED]
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
   PARTICIPATE. Shall refer to a utility company that assesses and repairs or
replaces, as appropriate, in a manner consistent with good engineering
practice, to be determined at the sole discretion of the Director of Public
Works, who may rely on an opinion issued by a Kentucky-licensed engineer,
underground lines, pipes, conduit, wires, cables or other objects, as part of
the city's street replacement and repair program, at the time when the street,
curb, or sidewalk, is excavated or opened by the city as part of the its street
replacement and repair program. Declining to assess and repair, or replace
underground lines, pipes, wires, or other objects, due to budget constraints or
costs, shall not constitute good engineering practice under this chapter.
   PERSON(S) IN CONTROL. When referring to a utility company, PERSON(S) IN
CONTROL shall include:
      (1)   Any persons who perform the work involving the disruption,
excavation, boring or cutting into the surface, sub-grade, or other portion of
any city street, curb or sidewalk;
      (2)   Any person who has the right or ability to supervise, control or
direct any person described in paragraph (1), and shall include, without
limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director, Deputy Executive
Director, Chief Operating Officer, President, Executive Vice President, or Vice
President, of the utility company that has any control, or contracts with, any
person described in paragraph (1); and
      (3)   Any utility company that contracts for such work to occur, and
including any person involved in such contracting, or who has the ability to
supervise, control or direct any person involved in the contracting, and shall
include, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director,
Deputy Executive Director, Chief Operating Officer, President, Executive Vice
President, or Vice President.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The full and complete construction, including complete
excavation and replacement of sub-grade, base, under-drains, drainage blankets,
surface, curbs, and other street components, consistent with the specifications
set forth in City of Fort Mitchell Typical Detail Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, as
applicable, which details are attached to Ordinance 2013-28 and incorporated
herein by reference.
   RESTORATION. Returning a portion of a street or street segment to its
condition, as that condition existed prior to any work being performed
consistent with the specifications set forth in City of Fort Mitchell Typical
Detail Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, as applicable, which details are attached to
Ordinance 2013-28 and incorporated herein by reference.
   STREET REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR PROGRAM. Shall refer to the city's planned
systemic street replacement and repair program, which includes the overlay and/
or reconstruction of city streets and curbs, and is funded through the
municipal road aid program, the city's road tax funds and/or other city funds.
   STREET SEGMENT.   
      (1)   In the case of any reconstruction, the area of the street required
to be reconstructed as depicted in City of Fort Mitchell Typical Detail Nos. 2,
3 and 5, as applicable, which details are attached to Ordinance 2013-28 and
incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   In the case of any restoration, the area of the street required to
be restored as depicted in City of Fort Mitchell Typical Detail Nos. 5, 8 and
9, as applicable, which details are attached to Ordinance 2013-28 and
incorporated herein by reference.
   UTILITY COMPANY. An entity that provides an essential commodity or service,
including, without limitation, water, sewage, electricity, gas or natural gas,
transportation, cable, data or communication, to the public, as well as any
contractor performing work on behalf of, or under contract with, such company.
The term UTILITY COMPANY shall include, but not be limited to, Cincinnati Bell,
Time Warner Cable, Duke Energy, Sanitation District #1 of Northern Kentucky,
and the Northern Kentucky Water District-Section II.
(Ord. 2013-28, passed 10-7-13)
§ 93.11 [RESERVED]
§ 93.12 [RESERVED]
§ 93.13 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
('88 Code, § 91.04)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.14 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
('88 Code, § 91.05)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.15 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
('88 Code, § 91.06) (Am. Ord. 1997-05, passed 6-2-97)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning sidewalks; construction along public roads;
specifications, see KRS 178.290
   For provisions concerning sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 93.16 [RESERVED]
Ed. Note:
   Sections 93.16 through 93.24 regarding Maintenance of City Sidewalks by
Property Owners repealed by Ordinance 2013-08, adopted June 3, 2013.
§ 93.17 [RESERVED]
§ 93.18 [RESERVED]
§ 93.19 [RESERVED]
§ 93.20 [RESERVED]
§ 93.21 [RESERVED]
§ 93.22 [RESERVED]
§ 93.23 [RESERVED]
§ 93.24 [RESERVED]
Editor's Note:
   Sections 93.16 - 93.24 regarding maintenance of city sidewalks by property
owners were repealed by Ord. 2013-08, passed 6-3-2013.
§ 93.25 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO CUT, EXCAVATE, OR BORE IN THE CITY RIGHT-OF-
WAY FROM THE CITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or utility company desiring to open or otherwise disrupt
the surface of any public street, sidewalk, or any area within publicly
dedicated right-of-way under the ownership and/or maintenance of the city shall
obtain an application for permit to cut, excavate, or bore in the city right-
of-way from the city ("permit") prior to commencing work. The permit
application, on a form provided by the city, shall be completed and submitted
to the Public Works Director prior to the commencement of any work. The Public
Works Director, or a designee, shall promptly review the submitted application
for permit and upon determination that all requisite information has been
submitted, approve and issue the permit without undue delay. The provisions set
forth in §§
93.25 through
93.30 shall apply to the permit holder and his or her employees, agents, and
subcontractors.
   (B)   The issuance of a permit by the city shall obligate the permit holder
to perform all work in accordance with the submitted permit application. The
permit holder, during the course of street opening operations, shall be
responsible for properly securing, maintaining, and marking the work area
sufficiently to warn the public and avoid any safety hazard to vehicles and
pedestrians. The permit holder shall be responsible for the defense of any
claim from any individual regarding personal injury and/or damage to public or
private property resulting from the work area covered by the permit.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05)
 Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.26 RECONSTRUCTION OF STREET SEGMENT IN CERTAIN CASES; WAIVERS, AND
RESTORATION TO BE COMPLETED PROMPTLY AND EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   (A)   Any utility company, or its contractor, that disrupts, excavates,
bores or cuts into the surface, sub-grade, or other portion of any city street
or curb, which has been replaced or repaired under the street replacement and
repair program within the 15 years immediately preceding the date the utility
company applies for its permit under §
93.25, shall conduct a complete reconstruction, as that term is defined in §
93.10, of the street segment, as that term is defined in §
93.10. Any permit granted under this section shall require such reconstruction
of the street segment, unless a waiver is granted as provided in division (C)
of this section. The reconstruction shall occur and be completed within 365
days of the disruption, excavation, boring or cutting into the surface.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this division shall not apply if:
      (1)   The utility company participated, as that term is defined in §
93.10, in the repair or replacement of the portion of the street proposed to be
disrupted, excavated, bored or cut by the utility company, or its contractor,
when the city reconstructed or repaired that portion of the street; and
      (2)   The disruption, excavation, boring or cutting into the surface,
sub-grade, or other portion of any city street or curb is necessitated by good
engineering practice, as determined at the sole discretion of the Director of
Public Works, who may rely on an opinion issued by a Kentucky-licensed
engineer.
   (B)   (1)   Waivers to division (A) or any of its requirements, or waivers
with conditions, may be granted by the City Administrative Officer, or, in the
absence of the Citv Administrative Officer, the Public Works Director, upon the
recommendation and advice of a City Engineer, who shall consider the following
in determining whether to grant the waiver:
         (a)   The amount of time that will lapse prior to the next repair or
replacement of the street segment in question by the city under the street
replacement and repair program;
         (b)   Whether the City Engineer believes or has issued an opinion
regarding whether the waiver will not result in the shortening of the lifespan
of the street segment in question or otherwise cause harm to the city;
         (c)   Whether unique topography or engineering factors justify the
granting of the waiver;
         (d)   The furtherance of the goals of this chapter are met through the
granting of a waiver, including whether the repair or replacement of the street
was foreseeable by the utility company during the last road reconstruction or
repair by the city under the street replacement and repair program; and
         (e)   The hardship to the applicant in light of the goals of this
chapter.
      (2)   No waiver may be granted until the City Engineer is consulted and
renders an opinion.
      (3)   Requests for waivers shall be in writing and delivered to the City
Clerk, and shall be submitted, except in cases of emergency, prior to the
disruption, excavation, or cutting into the surface, sub-grade, or other
portion of any city street, curb or sidewalk.
      (4)   Any appeals to waiver determinations shall be made to the Mayor, by
delivering a notice of appeal to the City Clerk, in writing, within seven
calendar days of the original determination. The Mayor shall hold a hearing on
the appeal within 30 days of the city's receipt of the appeal and issue a
decision thereon within seven days of the hearing.
      (5)   Further appeal may be had to the Circuit Court, by filing a notice
of appeal and complaint within 14 days after the Mayor's determination, which
shall be limited to a review of the record before the Mayor, and a
determination as to whether the Mayor abused his discretion and acted in an
arbitrary and capricious manner.
   (C)   If the Director of Public Works, after consulting with the City
Engineer, determines that any sidewalk or driveway located in a street segment
being reconstructed or restored by a utility company requires repair as part of
the utility company's project, then the utility company shall perform such work
consistent with the specifications set forth in City of Fort Mitchell Typical
Detail Nos. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. as applicable, which details are
attached to Ordinance 2013-28 and incorporated herein by reference.
   (D)   All restoration work related to the permit shall be completed in a
prompt and expeditious manner to minimize the amount of time any portion of the
public right-of-way area is disturbed. If permanent restoration, in accordance
with specifications as defined herein, does not occur immediately upon
completion of work, the permit holder shall be required to complete temporary
restoration of all disturbed area in accordance with city specifications. All
permanent restoration work shall be completed within 30 days from the date of
the permit’s issuance, or promptly upon completion of the work, whichever is
later, during the time period of April 1 through November 30. During the time
period of December 1 through March 31, permanent restoration shall be completed
in a timely manner, subject to appropriate weather conditions. A final
inspection of all permanent restoration work is required by the Public Works
Director or a designee.
   (E)   No person in control shall cause, permit, or allow any violation of
divisions (A), (C) or (D) of this section. No person in control, having
received notice by the city of a violation of division (A), (C) or (D) of this
section shall fail to correct the violation within 30 days of notice, or, if
reconstruction is involved, shall fail to cause the reconstruction to occur
within 365 days of that notice. Notice under this division is valid if sent by
ordinary U.S. mail, certified mail, facsimile, or electronic mail.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 10-7-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 PERMIT FEE AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit fee.
      (1)   Each application shall be accompanied with payment of a permit
application fee of $15. Utility companies shall have the option to pay fees on
a semi-annual basis by separate invoice from the city. The fee shall be doubled
for any applicant who commences with the opening of the street or right-of-way
without first having obtained the required permit. In addition, each
application shall require the submission of a performance guaranty, in the form
of cash, cashier’s check, performance bond, unconditional irrevocable letter of
credit, or similar instrument, acceptable to the city, which shall serve as a
guarantee that all restoration or reconstruction work will be completed by the
permit holder in accordance with the terms and provisions of §§
93.25 through
93.30. The performance guarantee requirement shall not apply to permits
encompassing sod-only cuts and other activity in unimproved areas of the public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The amount of the performance guaranty shall be based upon the
size/area of the street opening in cases not subject to reconstruction under §
93.26(A), or the size/area of the street segment which must be reconstructed in
cases subject to reconstruction under §
93.26(A), in accordance with the following tables:
Restoration work:
 
100 square feet or less      $30 per square foot
Greater than 100 square feet $20 per square foot
 
Reconstruction work:
 
100 square feet or less      $40 per square foot
Greater than 100 square feet $30 per square foot
 
      (3)   If the exact amount of disturbed area is not available or unknown
upon submission of the street opening application, the applicant may estimate
the approximate size or area of the work area and submit a corresponding
performance guaranty.
   (B)   Single performance guarantee.
      (1)   As an option to individual guaranties identified above and
submitted with each application, utility companies may submit a single guaranty
in the amount of $5,000 to cover all permit activity during the course of the
calendar year consisting of spot or patch repairs and emergency repairs. Any
other projects by any utility company shall comply with the square foot rates
set forth above. This paragraph shall not apply to projects that require
reconstruction under §
93.26(A) of this chapter.
      (2)   Utility companies, contractors, and other persons who make multiple
openings within the public right-of-way area during the course of a year may
calculate a single performance guaranty with the Public Works Director at the
beginning of each year based upon the prior year’s activity or estimate for the
upcoming year. This paragraph shall not apply to projects that require
reconstruction under §
93.26(A) of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the completion of permanent restoration or reconstruction of a
street opening, the Public Works Director or a designee shall inspect all
finished work to ensure conformance with applicable city specifications. If
restoration or reconstruction work is accepted by the city, the performance
guaranty shall be promptly released and returned to the permit holder. If the
restoration or reconstruction work is determined to be noncompliant with city
specifications, the Public Works Director or a designee shall notify the permit
holder, in writing, of the specific deficiency in the restoration or
reconstruction work. A second inspection shall be performed in 30 days by a
city representative to determine if the reported deficiency has been corrected.
If a deficiency still exists, the Public Works Director or a designee shall
issue a final written notice to the permit holder, advising that if restoration
or reconstruction work compliance is not completed within ten days, the city
shall order the work completed at the cost of the permit holder through
application of the performance guaranty, and the permit holder shall forfeit
any and all rights to the performance guaranty or portion of the performance
guaranty if an annual guaranty has been posted. Any dispute or disagreement
regarding compliance with the terms and provisions of §§
93.25 through
93.30 may be submitted to the City Administrator, in writing, for review and
consideration.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 10-7-13)
§ 93.28 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
93.25 through
93.30, emergency street openings by utility companies and other persons shall
be permitted when emergency repair of a utility system is warranted due to
breakages, service disruption, and/or safety considerations. Any person
performing an emergency street opening shall notify the city and complete and
submit a permit application, along with the required fee and performance
guaranty, no later than the next business day that the city offices are open
for business. All other provisions of §§
93.25 through
93.30 shall apply to emergency street opening work and restoration or
reconstruction requirements.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05; Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 10-7-13)
 Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.29 WARRANTY BY PERMIT HOLDER.
   All completed restoration work performed in conjunction with a permit shall
be warranted by the permit holder for a period of one year from the date of
acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05)
§ 93.30 WORKING CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic maintenance.
      (1)   The permit holder shall maintain traffic through the project at all
times in conformance with KTC Item 112. The permit holder shall adequately
mark, through the use of barrels, flashing lights, portable gates, and/or other
devices approved by the Public Works Director, or a designee, the limits of the
project area and those areas of the site which are temporarily closed to
traffic
      (2)   During the course of the normal working day, the permit holder
shall insure the safety of the public by providing a sufficient number of
flaggers to assist the traffic flow through the work area. If, at the
completion of the normal working day, any trench for utility construction has
not been completely backfilled and restored, a temporary cover properly
secured, such as a metal plate or another approved device, shall be placed over
the portion of the trench remaining open. Improperly secured temporary covers
requiring emergency service by the city shall be billed directly to the permit
holder.
      (3)   The permit holder shall notify the residents and businesses at
least 48 hours in advance of when their driveways will be blocked during
construction, or their property will otherwise adversely be affected, except
during emergency repair work. If business property is affected, an alternate
access must be provided if blockage exceeds one hour, except during emergency
repair work. Length of residential driveway closures or blockages shall be kept
to a minimum.
   (B)   Restricted working hours. Unless a cut must be made in an emergency
situation, city streets have restricted working hours from 7:00 a.m. until 6:00
p.m., Monday through Friday; and 7:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m., Saturdays. Such
work shall not be conducted on Sundays. Prior approval from the Public Works
Director is required for any deviation.
   (C)   Tunneling.
      (1)   All streets are to be bored or tunneled unless otherwise approved
by the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Tunneling is often necessary where pipe or conduit passes under
curb, the street, or other underground facilities. The permit holder shall not
do any tunneling except by permission of the Public Works Director. Where the
permit holder has resorted to tunneling, he or she shall bed the pipe or
conduit as specified below under division (E) of this section, "Backfilling and
Restoration." The remainder of the space from the top of this fill to the roof
of the tunnel shall be completely filled with 1:4:8 concrete of suitable
consistency, throughly tamped to fill the entire space, and to afford a rigid
support for the tunnel roof for its entire area. The complete backfilling of
the tunnel shall be performed to pass the approval of the Public Works
Director.
      (3)   In the installation of small service pipes, it is suggested that
the pipe be jacked through or that a hole of sufficient size be bored. In such
cases, charge for inspection and issuance of the permit will only be made for
that portion of the street over which the services are installed.
   (D)   Trenching (including utility repairs).
      (1)   Whenever culverts, sewers, manholes, valve chambers, catch
basinconnections, water mains, gas pipe, electric conduits, or house
connections thereto, or any type of subsurface facilities are exposed in
excavating, the permit holder shall, at his or her own expense, protect them
from damage.
      (2)   The length, width, and location of the trench or street cut, also
the manner in which the work is done, shall be under the direction of the
Public Works Director, or a designee. Every precaution shall be taken to
safeguard the work and to minimize inconvenience to the public.
      (3)   The permit holder shall carefully saw cut and remove the paving and
base course materials and store them in piles separated from the excavated
earth. Excavated materials shall be placed so as not to obstruct gutters or
drains and in such manner as will cause minimum inconvenience to the public. If
necessary, temporary covers for gutters shall be installed to insure adequate
drainage. In special cases, it may be necessary to remove part or all of the
excavated material from the street.
      (4)   Openings shall be properly sheeted and braced where necessary to
prevent caving, slipping, or cracking of sides. Sheeting and bracing used to
support the sides of the opening shall be carefully removed as the backfilling
of the trench progresses, but if the Public Works Director considers it
necessary for the protection of the banks, the sheeting and bracing shall be
cut off two feet below the surface of the subgrade and left in place. If
pavement along the sides of the opening is, or becomes, undermined and
unsupported, the permit holder shall, at his or her own cost and expense, break
down and remove the undermined pavement and the foundation thereof and shall
also remove loose earth and replace it with earth properly compacted or low
strength mortar backfill in the manner provided below under division (E) of
this section, "Backfilling and Restoration."
   (E)   Backfilling and restoration.
      (1)   Backfill and restoration of pavement and sod areas shall conform to
the following specifications:
         (a)   Low-strength mortar backfill material.
            1.   Description. This work shall consist of the placement of a
flowable mixture of portland cement, fly ash, and sand for backfilling conduits
under public roadways.
               a.   Cement 801.01.
               b.   Fly Ash shall meet ASTM C-618.
               c.   Fine aggregate shall be natural sand or sand manufactured
from stone, gravel, or air-cooled slag. The gradation of the sand shall meet
the requirements of 804. The sand shall be fine enough to stay in suspension in
the mixture to the extent required for proper flow. The Public Works Director
reserves the right to reject the sand if a flowable mixture cannot be produced.
               d.   Water used for mortar backfill shall be free from oil,
acid, strong alkalines, or vegetable matter.
            2.   Mortar mix proportioning.
               a.   The initial trial mixture shall consist of the following
quantities of materials per cubic yard:
 
Material       Class LSM-O
Cement         50 lbs.
Fly ash        250 lbs.
Sand           2910 lbs.
Water (target) 500 lbs.
 
               b.   Adjustments of the proportions may be made by the Public
Works Director, provided the total absolute volume of the materials is
maintained.
            3.   Mix adjustment.
               a.   The supplier shall make one or more cubic-yard trial
batches at different water contents to insure a flowable mortar. Mixture is too
dry when cracks develop in the mortar as it flows into place.
               b.   To expedite settlement of the mortar, it will be necessary
for bleed water to appear on the surface immediately after the mortar is struck
off. A delay in bleeding indicates there are too many fines in the mixture, so
the fly ash quantity shall be reduced in increments of 50 pounds until the
mixture is bleeding freely. Approximately 60 pounds of sand shall be added to
replace each 50-pound increment of fly ash to maintain the original yield.
            4.   Mixing mortar. The mortar shall be delivered to the site of
the work and discharge shall be complete within 2.5 hours.
            5.   Placing mortar.
               a.   Flowable mortar shall be discharged from the mixer by any
reasonable means into the space to be filled. The fill material shall be
brought up uniformly to the fill line shown on the plans or as directed by the
Public Works Director. Placing of material over low-strength mortar backfill
may commence as soon as the surface water is gone or as directed.
               b.   Before placing the flowable mortar as backfill for a storm
sewer conduit, the permit holder shall secure the conduit to prevent it from
floating during placement of the flowable mortar. The permit holder's proposed
method of backfill placement and proposed method of holding the conduit at the
plan grade and flowline elevations should be established prior to construction.
         (b)   Excavation material for compacted backfill. Any material from
excavation of trenches which is desired to be used for backfill above pipes and
which is to be compacted shall be clean and shall be of such composition that
the material can be compacted to 95% relative density with near optimum water
content.
         (c)   Seeding and protection. All grass areas disturbed by
construction shall be restored by seeding and mulching as per KTC Item 212.03.
         (d)   Full-depth pavement sawing. All existing pavement to be removed
shall be sawed full depth at the limits of removal, using a diamond saw blade
to provide a uniform edge and prevent damage to the pavement that is to remain
in place. All pavement sawing should be performed at right angles whenever
possible.
         (e)   Item 403-sealing edges.
            1.   All edges of the asphalt concrete surface course constructed
pursuant to the permit shall be sealed with asphalt cement meeting the same
specifications as used in Item 403. Sealing edges shall be done neatly and
without more than 1/2 inch of the sealant being visible on the surface.
            2.   Any extra sealant applied to visible surfaces shall be
carefully and thoroughly removed by the permit holder.
         (f)   Responsibility for dust, mud, dirt, debris, and appearance. The
permit holdershall do everything possible to minimize dust mud, dirt, and
debris and to keep the appearance of the area surrounding the street opening in
good order. The permit holder shall use calcium chloride or equal to keep dust
to a minimum. After the close of each working day, the permit holder shall see
that the area surrounding the work area is swept up and as clean as possible.
At no time will it be permissible to leave piles of excavated materials or dirt
or mud in the street and sidewalk. If necessary, the area should be washed with
water. The permit holder shall do whatever the Public Works Director deems
necessary to clean up the area. In the event the permit holder fails to comply
with the provisions set forth herein, the city may take the necessary steps to
clean the area consistent with the requirements herein. The permit holder shall
be responsible for the costs of such work by the city, and the city may either
invoice the permit holder for such work or deduct the appropriate amount from
the permit holder's guaranty being held by the city.
         (g)   Typical detail sections. The typical detail sections (numbers
one through six) attached to Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05, and adopted herein
by reference as if set forth fully in this section shall be utilized for all
restoration work based upon the existing conditions and improvements.
         (h)   Applicable laws. In no event shall the provisions and
requirements set forth in §§ 93.25 through 93.30 replace or be substituted for
any applicable laws or rules or regulations applicable to the work performed by
any permit holder, including any OSHA requirements. Any permit holder shall be
bound and otherwise abide by all such applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-21-05)
Penalty, see § 93.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.35 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
('88 Code, § 91.20)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.36 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
('88 Code, § 91.21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.37 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
('88 Code, § 91.22)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §§
130.15 through
130.19
§ 93.38 REMOVAL OF ICE, SNOW AND OTHER DEBRIS.
   All resident persons, firms or corporations occupying any real property and
the owners of any vacant real property, whether vacant lots or vacant improved
real property, within the territorial limits of the city, shall keep the
sidewalks which abut or which may be in the public right-of-way which abut the
occupied or vacant real property free from all ice, slush, snow, waste paper,
trash, refuse, leaves, building materials, dirt and all foreign matter,
whatever its nature, and free of all overhanging bushes, shrubs, trees and
other vegetation, which in any way might impair the health, safety and comfort
of the general public using the sidewalk.
('88 Code, § 91.23) (Ord. 1946-5, passed 3-27-46)
Penalty, see § 93.99
AWNINGS AND MARQUEES
§ 93.50 AWNING REGULATIONS.
   Awnings, whether cloth, metal or any other material, may be erected in the
city only in accordance with the following specifications:
   (A)   An awning may extend out from a building for a distance equal to no
more than half the width of the sidewalk, and in no event may exceed the
maximum distance of eight feet.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is less than 12 feet in width, the awning must be
held back at least two feet from the curb line.
   (C)   No awning shall be lower than seven feet, six inches in height,
measured from the sidewalk at its lowest point.
   (D)   The dimensions in divisions (A) through (C) above are to be taken from
the property line, fronting each building.
   (E)   Each awning must be properly secured to the building with approved
mechanical fasteners not to exceed 24-inch centers.
('88 Code, § 91.30) (Ord. 1960-1, passed 2-17-60)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.51 MARQUEE REGULATIONS.
   Marquees may be erected in the city only in accordance with the following
specifications:
   (A)   A marquee extending two feet or less from the building must be at
least ten feet in height at the lowest point.
   (B)   A marquee extending more than two feet from the building must be at
least 12 feet in height at its lowest point.
   (C)   No marquee may extend out beyond a distance of two feet from the curb
line of the road.
   (D)   Each marquee must be provided with proper drainage through downspouts
connected to a sewer, in a manner as to prevent any water from running down on
to the sidewalks.
('88 Code, § 91.31) (Ord. 1960-1, passed 2-17-60)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.52 PERMIT, SKETCH REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to erect an awning or marquee must submit a sketch of
the proposed awning or marquee to the Building Inspector for approval. Upon
approval, the Building Inspector shall issue a permit for which the applicant
will pay a fee as provided for in the Building Code, the terms of which are
herewith incorporated as though set out and reiterated herein.
('88 Code, § 91.32) (Ord. 1960-1, passed 2-17-60)
Penalty, see § 93.99
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 93.65 NUMBERS REQUIRED ON ALL HOUSES.
   All houses, tenements or lots shall be provided with numbers which shall be
painted or shall consist of some waterproof substance of a size not less than
three inches by four inches, and shall be large enough to be readily visible at
a distance of 50 feet.
('88 Code, § 91.40) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.66 NUMBERING ON NORTH/SOUTH STREETS.
   On streets running north and south, the east side of these streets shall be
numbered with even numbers, and the west side of these streets shall be
numbered with odd numbers, and the numbers shall commence at the north end of
these streets, and shall proceed southwardly. That is, the west side of the
street, beginning at the north end shall be numbered one, three, five, seven,
nine and so forth, and so continue to the south end, and the east side
beginning at the north end shall start with two, four, six, eight and so forth,
and so continue to the south end of the street.
('88 Code, § 91.41) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.67 NUMBERING ON EAST/WEST STREETS WEST OF DIXIE HIGHWAY.
   Numbering on all streets running east and west that are on the west side of
the Dixie Highway shall begin on the south side of the street with the number
one and shall proceed westwardly. The odd numbers shall be on the south side
and the even numbers on the north side of these streets.
('88 Code, § 91.42) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.68 NUMBERING ON EAST/WEST STREETS EAST OF DIXIE HIGHWAY.
   Numbering on all streets running east and west on the east side of the Dixie
Highway shall begin with the number one at the Dixie Highway on the south side
of these streets and shall proceed eastwardly. The even numbers shall be on the
north side of these streets and the odd numbers shall be on the south side.
('88 Code, § 91.43) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.69 SPACING BETWEEN NUMBERS.
   On all streets one number shall be allowed for every 50 feet of ground,
whether improved or vacant. In places where one of these 50-foot divisions
falls on the property of more than one person, the number pertaining to that 50
feet shall belong to the owner that would be entitled to a smaller or prior
number. If this allotment of numbers shall leave any house not provided with a
number, that house shall take the half number between its adjacent numbers.
('88 Code, § 91.44) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.70 NUMBER SEQUENCE PER BLOCK.
   Each town block, commencing and terminating by intersecting or cross
streets, shall be allotted not over 100 house or lot numbers. The first block
of the street shall begin with the number one, the second block with the number
101, the third block 201, and continuing in consecutive hundreds to the end of
the street.
('88 Code, § 91.45) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.71 ALTERING, DEFACING NUMBERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall retain a number which, according to the allotment described
in this subchapter, belongs to any other owner, or shall alter, take down or
deface any number conforming to the terms of this subchapter.
('88 Code, § 91.46) (M.B. 3, p. 15, passed 11-29-29)
Penalty, see § 93.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 93.85 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 93.86 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 93.87 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 93.88 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 93.89 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 93.90 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person that violates §
93.26(A) or (C) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less $250, nor more than $500, and imprisoned for not
less than seven days nor more than 12 months.
   (B)   Any person that violates §
93.26(D) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned not more than 12 months.
   (C)   Any person, including any person in control, who violates §
93.26(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less $300, nor more than $500, and imprisoned for not less than 60
days nor more than 12 months.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 534.050, any corporation or entity, public or private,
that violates §
93.26(A), (C) or (E) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5,000 and
not more than $10,000, or double the amount of the gain by the commission of
the offense.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies set forth in this section, any person,
corporation or entity that violates §
93.26(A), (C), (D) or (E) shall be liable to the city for the full amount of
restoration or reconstruction required under those divisions, in addition to
reasonable engineering fees, attorneys’ fees, costs, and expert fees, for the
enforcement of those divisions. The amount of liability may be proven by an
opinion of a licensed engineer, to a reasonable degree of engineering
certainty, about the costs to conduct the restoration or reconstruction, and
without regard to whether or not it was performed or will be performed by the
city.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, except §
93.26, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not more than $500.
   (G)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby further classified as a civil
offense, pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (H)   If a civil citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested
by the person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $100 for the first offense, $200 for the second offense, and
$500 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (I)   If a civil citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense,
from $100 to $750 for the second offense, and from $200 to $1,800 for the
third, and thereafter, offense. An offense shall be considered a subsequent
offense if there is a previous offense within a five-year period.
   (J)   Each section of the chapter violated shall be considered a separate
offense. If two or more sections of the chapter are violated, the fines and
penalties shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day
a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99; Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. 2013-
33, passed 12-2-13)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 94: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
94.01   Planting near fire plugs
   
94.02   Planting between fire plug and street or sidewalk
   
94.03   Removal of nonconforming trees and shrubs
   
94.04   Planting between street and sidewalk restricted
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PLANTING NEAR FIRE PLUGS.
   (A) It is considered to be a fire hazard and an interference with the Fire
Department to erect, plant, or place shrubs, trees, hedges and similar foliage
within a close proximity of a fire plug or fire hydrant in the city.
   (B) No person shall plant or place shrubs and similar foliage within five
feet of any fire plug or fire hydrant within the city.
('88 Code, § 96.01)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 PLANTING BETWEEN FIRE PLUG AND STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall plant or place shrubs and similar foliage at any location
between the fire plug or fire hydrant and the sidewalk or street immediately in
front of any residence in the city.
('88 Code, § 96.02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   Any shrubs, trees, hedges or similar foliage located so as to be in
violation of §§ 94.01 and 94.02 shall be removed from that location by the
property owner or occupant of the property and the continued existence of the
shrubs and the like in the location shall be deemed to be in violation of those
sections herein prescribed. Each day that the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
('88 Code, § 96.03)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 PLANTING BETWEEN STREET AND SIDEWALK RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall plant or allow to be planted any trees, shrubbery,
flowers or other kind of plant or vegetation in the spaces that are bordered on
one side by sidewalks and on the other side by curbs, streets or highways
within the city, without the prior approval of the Director of the Public Works
Department. (Ord. 1972-10, passed - -72)
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to prevent interference with access to
sewer pipes, gas pipes or other underground apparatus that are or may be placed
under the surface of the ground beneath this space. (M.B. 2, p. 142, passed 8-
14-29)
('88 Code, § 96.04)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. ('88 Code, § 96.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
   
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
112.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES
   
113.   GARAGE SALES
   
114.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
   
115.   MOTELS AND HOTELS
   
116.   RESERVED
   
117.   JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
   
118.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
Business Regulations
   
110.10   Requirements
   
110.11   Prohibitions
   
110.12   Form and content of annual business regulatory license application
   
110.13   Application process
   
110.14   Appeals
   
110.15   Expiration date
   
110.16   Kenton County Fiscal Court
Business Taxation
   
110.25   Levy and imposition
   
110.26   Rate
   
110.27   Apportionment of gross receipts
   
110.28   Exempted activities
   
110.29   Administrative provisions
   
110.30   Purpose of occupational license fee
Collection
   
110.40   Collection
Gross Receipts Tax Incentives and Job    Development
   
110.50   Definitions
   
110.51   Establishment of incentives
   
110.52   Remittance of incentive
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
otherwise.
   APPLICABLE LAWS.  The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations and other laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky,
County of Kenton and any other governmental entity or agency having
jurisdiction.
   BUSINESS.  Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions or other
businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and Section
181 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE. A license required by the city, pursuant to the
police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE. A fee required by the city for each
business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and the police power
thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   CITY. The City of Fort Mitchell, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   NOBODY. Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE. A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the city, including, without limitation, the authority therefore
established by KRS 82.082, 92.280, 92.281 and Section 181 of the Kentucky
Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a power to
impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes, on
franchises, trades, occupations and professions.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to both regulate and tax those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 110.10 REQUIREMENTS.
   Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city, other than those who are only so engaged as
employees, shall obtain an annual business regulatory license for that
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business; and pay to the city
a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either $50 or that part of a
multi-jurisdictional occupational permit fee, collected by the county and
allocated to the city, pursuant to the provisions of an inter-local agreement
between the city and the county and some other cities therein, for a single
multi-jurisdictional annual occupational permit fee of $175, which the Mayor is
hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.11 PROHIBITIONS.
   Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as employees in the city,
shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage
in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city
for which the annual business regulatory license required hereby has not been
issued.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.12 FORM AND CONTENT OF ANNUAL BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE AND
APPLICATION.
   The form and content of the annual business regulatory license required by
this chapter and the application for it shall be determined by the City
Administrative Officer; provided, however, that the application shall include:
   (A)   Sufficient information for the identification of the persons involved
in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business; and
   (B)   The computation of the annual occupational license fee imposed by this
chapter; and
   (C)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws; and
   (D)   The name in which the business will be conducted; the address of the
real estate upon which the business will be conducted, and the mailing address
of the business if different from the location; and the business telephone
number and the state tax identification numbers of the business.
   (E)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of each
owner of the business and each partner, officer or director, if any.
   (F)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly authorized
representative of the business who is responsible for operating and managing
the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency.
   (G)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted.
   (H)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in the
city.
   (I)   The accounting period of the business.
   (J)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for the
business in the city during the license year.
   (K)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial, suspension or
revocation of any business regulatory license for any person named or
identified in the application.
   (L)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of any
person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application.
   (M)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree, certification
or similar document is required by any applicable law for the conduct or
employment in the business.
   (N)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous material kept at the
business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets, guard
dogs or other animals usually kept therein and any other information which the
applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel
responding to a call to said premises.
   (O)   The gross receipts and hereinafter described property factor, sales
factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar year.
   (P)   Such additional information that the City Administrative Officer
determines to be reasonably necessary.
   (Q)   A warning in the following or similar language:
      “WARNING: Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by
affirmation or any other legally authorized manner of attesting to the truth of
such statements, with the signatures notarized, according to law; and any false
statements made herein shall be punishable according to law; and may be cause
for denial of the application or the revocation of any business regulatory
license issued pursuant thereto.”
   (R)   Information incorporated by reference. All information from any
previous application for an annual business regulatory license required by this
chapter, which continues to be accurate, may be incorporated by reference into
subsequent annual applications for the same license by the same applicant.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.13 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter shall be signed by the applicant or
an authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law; and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Each application for an annual business regulatory
license required by this chapter shall be presented to the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, along with both the business regulatory
license fee and any occupational license fee that is due from the applicant. No
application for a business regulatory license shall be accepted or received by
the City Clerk without payment of the business regulatory license fee and any
occupational license fee due from the applicant.
   (C)   Review of applications. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter that is received and accepted by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be immediately referred to the City
Administrative Officer, who shall review it according to the following
standards within 30 days after the receipt and acceptance thereof by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector.
      (1)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required to
have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application; the
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary evidence of the
issuance satisfactory to the City Administrative Officer shall be provided by
the applicant.
      (2)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Administrative Officer shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted.
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business.
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
         (d)   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (3)   (a)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
business is of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a
probability of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely
affecting the health, safety, morals and welfare of occupants or residents of
adjoining property, the citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute
a nuisance.
         (b)   In the event that the applicant, business, authorized
representative of either, predecessor in interest, or prior business or
operation located at the same property as the business or applicant has had
their occupational license revoked or suspended (with the suspension period
still in effect) under the city Chronic Nuisance Ordinance §
92.19(B), the City Administrative Officer shall deny the application.
      (4)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider the business history
of the applicant including:
         (a)   Whether the persons named and identified in the application have
been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or any
other city, county or state and the reasons therefor.
         (b)   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
      (5)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the persons
named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent
taxes, assessments, fines or similar obligations.
      (6)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the business
and the proposed location complies with all applicable laws, including, without
limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and
maintenance, and fire prevention and life safety regulations.
      (7)   After review of the application in conformity with this chapter,
the City Administrative Officer shall notify the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or
any designee thereof, of either:
         (a)   The approval of the application.
         (b)   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Administrative Officer shall
determine and require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the intent of this chapter, including, without limitation:
            1.   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Administrative Officer in a reasonable amount determined
by the City Administrative Officer to ensure compliance.
            2.   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a
specified date.
            3.   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection of
certain parts of the premises or of certain records.
            4.   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the premises
before a specified date.
         (c)   The disapproval the application.
   (D)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Tax Collector receives
a written notice from the City Administrative Officer, within 30 days after an
application for a business regulatory license required by this chapter has been
referred to the City Administrative Officer for review pursuant to this
chapter, that the application was either conditionally approved or disapproved,
the City Clerk/ Tax Collector, or the designee thereof shall issue the business
regulatory license that is the subject of the application and mail it to the
applicant at the address indicated in the application; and, thereafter, the
applicant may engage in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business described in the application, but only at the address thereof
indicated in the application, until that business regulatory license expires or
is suspended or revoked according to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/
Tax Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license required
by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to this chapter, that the application was conditionally approved, the
City Clerk/Tax Collector shall notify the applicant thereof and the reasons
therefore identified by the City Administrative Officer, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant indicated in the
application, along with a notice that the license will be issued by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector only upon receipt by the City Clerk/Tax Collector of a
written signed acceptance by the applicant of the conditions to be performed
prior to the issuance of the license. The notice shall also state that if the
acceptance is not received by the City Clerk/Tax Collector within such time,
the application will thereby be disapproved.
   (F)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/Tax
Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license required
by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to this chapter, that the application was disapproved by the City
Administrative Officer, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall notify the applicant
of that denial and the reasons therefore identified by the City Administrative
Officer, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
applicant indicated in the application, with a refund of any anticipated city
occupational license fee paid with the application, and a notice of the
procedure established in this chapter for an appeal from the denial of that
application.
   (G)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any business regulatory license required by this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the City Administrative Officer for any period of time
determined by the City Administrative Officer to be reasonable and appropriate
for any of the following reasons; but only after a due process evidentiary
hearing in regard thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the licensee at
the address indicated in the licensee's application, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at least ten days prior to the hearing:
      (2)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application.
      (3)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional license.
      (4)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any
other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted.
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the regulation
of the business.
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
         (d)   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (5)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the license was issued.
      (6)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the business
by any person engaged therein.
      (7)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
      (8)   The revocation or suspension of a business regulatory license
pursuant to this chapter shall be in addition to the imposition of any other
penalty prescribed by ordinance or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 8-16-11)
§ 110.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city, by
filing with the City Clerk/Tax Collector, within 30 days after the conditional
approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension.
      (1)   A written notice of the appeal; and
      (2)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal; and
      (3)   A statement why there should be an approval without conditions, or
no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
      (4)   An appeal fee in the sum of $200, to provide for the expenses of
conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
   (B)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within 90 days after the date the appeal was filed, the
Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including findings of
fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the due process
hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the application for the
license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is filed in the court
having jurisdiction thereof within 30 days after the decision of the Mayor, the
decision of the Mayor shall become final.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.15 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Unless an earlier expiration date is provided therein, all business
regulatory licenses required hereby shall expire at midnight on the fifteenth
day of the fourth month after the end of the fiscal year of the licensee.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.16 KENTON COUNTY FISCAL COURT.
   The executive authority of the city may contract with the Fiscal Court of
Kenton County, Kentucky, for the performance of the duties imposed by this
chapter on the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
BUSINESS TAXATION 
§ 110.25 LEVY AND IMPOSITION.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the general operating expenses of the
city and the municipal services and functions provided thereby, and subject to
the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795, and except as provided in § 110.13
(C)(3), an occupational license fee is hereby levied and imposed upon everybody
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other businesses in
the city, for the privilege of that engagement.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.26 RATE.
   The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this chapter is
at the rate of:
   (A)   Employees. One and one-quarter percent of all compensation earned by
an employee for labor, work or services provided in the city.
   (B)   Those not employees. 0.075% of gross receipts of everybody, other than
employees, who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2018-
06, passed 1-1-19)
§ 110.27 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS. 
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 67.753(4), it is hereby determined
that the apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do not fairly represent the
extent of the engagement in the city of those, other than employees, who are
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both
within and outside of the city; and
   (B)   Accordingly, the following described property factor is hereby added
to the payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS 67.753 for the
apportionment of the gross receipts of those, other than employees, who are
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both
within and outside of the city.
      (1)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer's real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the computation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
         (a)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight times the net annual rental
rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any annual
rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals.
         (b)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging
the values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Administrative Officer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer's property.
      (2)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of those,
other than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business both within and outside of the city that are
subject to the occupational license fee established by this chapter, shall be
determined by multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the
quotient of the total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in
KRS 67.753 (2) and (3), and the property factor described in the previous §
110.04(C)(1), that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period, divided by the total number of
those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period . The total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period will always be either one, two or three. For
example, if the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business:
         (a)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the city during the tax period would be
one; or
         (b)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business had in the city during the tax period would be two; or
         (c)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period would be three.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.28 EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Because of the undue burden of administration, no license under this
chapter shall be required of domestic servants employed in private homes.
   (B)   No license shall be required of a minister of religion who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of a recognized
church, religious sect or religious organization, to teach and preach its
religious doctrines or to administer its rights in public worship, in the
performance of one or more of those duties. However, it is not intended to
exempt an ordained minister of religion from the necessity of paying a license
fee for work done or services performed in the city in activities not connected
with his regular duties as a minister of religion.
   (C)   Nonprofit, religious and charitable organizations shall be exempt from
all provisions of this chapter only as the organization shall qualify pursuant
to Section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
   (D)   Apartment houses and the rental of property shall be exempt from the
license fee required by this chapter if the apartment building or residence
involved shall have only two residential units and only if the owner of the
building shall occupy one of those two residential units as his principal and
primary residence.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that employees of
churches, religious congregations or religious societies of all creeds (except
duly ordained ministers) shall be relieved from the payment of any occupational
license fee in compliance with all regulations established by the License
Inspector with respect to making returns and payment of the fees.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
§ 110.29 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
the City Administrative Officer, who is hereby authorized to promulgate any
additional regulations in regard thereto which are not inconsistent with any
state statute, or any ordinance of the city, or any executive order of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall provide the sole and exclusive
method for the filing of amended returns for overpayment or refund of any
license fees imposed pursuant to this chapter and the appeals from the denial
or refusal thereof. No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or
delay the collection or payment of any license tax under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   All amended returns, requests for refunds or credits shall be made
within the later of:
      (1)   One year of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a return
or the date the money was paid, whichever is the later; or
      (2)   Sixty days from the effective date of this section.
   (D)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer or employee within the period set forth in division (C),
no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (E)   A request for a refund or credit shall be made by mailing an amended
return and supporting documentation to the collection agent, as well as to the
City Administrative Officer and shall be deemed made when received by the City
Administrative Officer. A refund request shall include the amended return and
supporting documentation showing the total amount of overpayment of license fee
or tax that the party claiming the refund believes was erroneously paid, the
amount of the erroneous payment, a copy of any checks or other documentation
regarding such payment, the amount of tax or fee actually collected or paid,
and the basis of the refund.
   (F)   The City Administrative Officer shall review any such requests for
refund, may gather or request such additional evidence as may be reasonably
necessary, and, if any such request by the party claiming a refund shall go
unanswered for a period of 14 days or more, may deny any such request; the City
Administrator shall make a determination within 45 days of receipt as to the
amount, if any, of a refund that may be made.
   (G)   The action of the City Administrator may be appealed, in writing, to
the Mayor, with such notice of appeal to be delivered to the City Clerk within
seven days of the determination of the City Administrative Officer, who shall
schedule a hearing on the matter. The Mayor may delegate or contract with a
licensed Kentucky Attorney for purposes of conducting this hearing. At the
hearing, the party requesting the hearing shall have the burden of establishing
entitlement to the refund in question. The determination of the Mayor shall be
made within 30 days after the date of the appeal hearing to the Mayor.
   (H)   No legal action shall be filed by any party prior to the exhaustion of
all administrative remedies provided under this section.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07; Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 6-2-14)
§ 110.30 PURPOSE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The purpose of the business regulatory license fees and the occupational
license fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to fund the general
operating expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire,
emergency medical, public works and administrative services.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
COLLECTION
§ 110.40 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied by this chapter shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/
Tax Collector or by the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, with which the
executive authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract for those
services.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07)
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX INCENTIVES AND  JOB DEVELOPMENT
§ 110.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT. Any agreement made pursuant to this subchapter between the city
and an approved company with respect to an economic development project.
   APPLICANT. A business whose employees are primarily engaged or will be
engaged in professional, administrative or technical occupations, or a
manufacturer or logistics company, which business, manufacturer, or company
proposes to locate its headquarters in the city, and which commits by agreement
to create a minimum new jobs and annual payroll within the city as hereinafter
provided. An applicant shall not include sexually oriented businesses or
businesses that are primarily engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   APPROVED COMPANY. An applicant that the Mayor deems to have qualified for an
incentive.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Any addition or alteration to real property that: (1)
fixes a defect or design flaw; (2) or creates an addition, physical enlargement
or expansion; (3) or creates an increase in capacity, productivity or
efficiency; (4) or rebuilds property after the end of its economic useful life;
(5) or replaces a major component or structural part of the property; (6) or
adapts property to a new or different use.
   COMMENCEMENT DATE. The date that the incentive is first available to the
approved company as provided in the agreement.
   INCENTIVE. Up to 50% refund from the city, but in no case greater than
$25,000 per year, for payment of the city gross receipts taxes that an approved
company has remitted to Kenton County on behalf of the city pursuant to §§
110.26 and
110.27 at the end of the incentive year, for a term not to exceed two years.
   INCENTIVE YEAR. The 12 month period beginning on the commencement date and
each 12-month period thereafter during the term for which the incentive is
available to the approved company.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-3-21)
§ 110.51 ESTABLISHMENT OF INCENTIVES.
   (A)   To the extent any applicant: (1) creates through relocation to the
city; an annual payroll of at least $2,000,000 and commits in writing to
maintain that amount for two years from the Commencement Date; and (2) commits
in writing to make capital improvements of at least $500,000 within the city
within two years from the date of the submission of the application submitted
in accordance with division (B), the applicant shall qualify to apply for an
incentive. Such incentive will continue for the authorized term of up to two
years, provided that the approved company maintains or exceeds these
requirements during any particular successive year, and otherwise is in
compliance with the terms of the agreement.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   In order to be eligible to receive an incentive, an applicant must
first submit a signed application to the Mayor of the city, for his/her
approval, on a form prescribed by the Mayor, and shall provide any additional
information reasonably requested to enable the Mayor to evaluate the
application. If an application is accepted, the agreement will be executed by
the Mayor on behalf of the city and the approved company. No approved company
will be eligible to receive an incentive until the agreement has been properly
executed. The Mayor is entitled to include such terms and conditions within the
agreement as he/she deems appropriate to ensure that the city receives the full
value of any benefits to be gained, including, without limitation, provisions
requiring continuing operation within the city for a period beyond the
incentive period, provisions for reimbursement of incentives and potential
penalties not to exceed 50% of the incentives offered in the event of default
by the approved company, and appropriate conditions precedent to the triggering
of incentives to ensure the city receives the full revenue and job benefits
deemed appropriate, within the limits set forth in division (A). The
applicant's first year, for the purpose of this subchapter, shall begin on the
date provided in the agreement, but no later than six months from the date of
execution of the agreement by the city and the applicant.
   (D)   If the approved company does not comply with the agreement by
relocating outside of the city, failing to create jobs, failing to generate
payroll within any particular year during the term of the agreement, or failing
to make required capital improvements, then the approved company shall not
receive the incentive for that year.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-3-21)
§ 110.52 REMITTANCE OF INCENTIVE.
   (A)   In the case of an incentive, upon agreement with the city, through its
Mayor, the approved company shall remit to Kenton County on behalf of the city
the full amount of the gross receipts tax consistent with all applicable laws
and ordinances. Upon satisfaction that the approved company has met all of the
terms and requirements of the agreement, the city shall then rebate the
incentive to the approved company within 90 days after the remittance of gross
receipts tax.
   (B)   Any approved company receiving an incentive shall make its payroll
book, financial statements, all pertinent records relating to capital
improvements planned or made, and other applicable financial records available
to the city at such reasonable times as the city shall request and shall file
with the city documentation respecting any gross receipts as the city may
require.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-3-21)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil
offense, pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is
intended, and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental
means of obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing
contained herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this
chapter by any other means authorized by law.
      (2)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
      (3)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense,
from $60 to $300 for the second offense, and from $100 to $400 for the third,
and thereafter, offense.
      (4)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate finable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense.
Each day a business is operated without a required license shall be a separate
offense under this chapter. Additionally, multiple offenses, whether the same
or different offenses, may be included on a single citation. Any recurring
offense after the third offense shall be considered additional third offenses.
   (B)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Each violation of this chapter shall be a Class A misdemeanor for
which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as
set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
      (2)   Each day a business is operated without a required license shall be
a separate offense under this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 12-8-07; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 8-16-11)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Possession by minors on private property
Licenses
   
111.20   Licenses; fee schedule
   
111.21   Form; content of city license
   
111.22   Application; submission and issuance
   
111.23   Approval of application
   
111.24   Denial of application
   
111.25   Transfer of license
   
111.26   Grocery, gasoline sellers and the like prohibited from obtaining
license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages 
   
111.40   Hours
   
111.41   Compliance with regulations and prohibitions
   
111.42   Maintenance of state license
   
111.43   Display of required licenses and certain signs
   
111.44   Criminal conduct on premises prohibited
   
111.45   Conducting business with minor
   
111.46   Illegal sexual conduct; exposure of human body
   
111.47   Business to be conducted continuously; exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.60   [Reserved]
   
111.61   Suspension, revocation of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   As used herein, the words and phrases defined in KRS 241.010 and
243.015 have the meanings indicated therein.
   (B)   The following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:
   BOARD. The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established pursuant to
KRS 241.030.
   CITY ABC ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed to the office of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator created and established by the city.
   CITY LICENSE. A license established and authorized pursuant to the terms
hereof.
   CITY LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a city license pursuant to the
terms hereof.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or
unincorporated association of persons or any combination thereof, and the
shareholders, officers, agents, servants and employees thereof.
   PREMISES. The premises described in the city license issued pursuant to the
terms hereof and the application therefor.
   STATE LICENSE. A license authorized by KRS 243.030 to 243.680.
   TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any action, business or transaction in
regard to the production, storage, transportation, distribution, sale, delivery
and transfer of alcoholic beverages.
('88 Code, § 111.01) (Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-23-13)
§ 111.02 POSSESSION BY MINORS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person being the owner, occupant or otherwise having the care, custody or
control of any property located in the city shall knowingly allow any person
under the age of 21 years to remain on the property while in the possession of
any alcoholic beverage or while consuming any alcoholic beverage.
('88 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 1987-2, passed 2-18-87)
Penalty, see § 111.99
LICENSES
§ 111.20 LICENSES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is hereby established
a city license for each of the licenses authorized by that KRS section. The
actions, business, and transactions authorized and permitted by the possession
of a city license shall be the same as those permitted by the state license to
which the city license corresponds. Except as provided in division (C), the
renewal and expiration dates for city licenses shall be the same as the renewal
and expiration dates for the corresponding state licenses. The fees and
expiration dates for city licenses shall be as indicated in the following
schedule:
License Description Fee Per Annum (unless otherwise indicated)
License      Fee Per Annum (unless otherwise indicated)
Description
Distiller s  $200
license
Rectifier s
license
Class A
(more than   $412.50
50,000
gallons
rectified
annually)
Rectifier s
license
Class B
(less than   $200
50,000
gallons
rectified
annually)
Wholesaler s
distilled    $200
spirits and
wine license
Quota retail
package      $250
license
Quota retail
drink        $300
license
Special
temporary    $166.66 (per event)
license
Nonquota
type 1
retail drink
license
(includes    $2,000
distilled
spirits,
wine, and
malt
beverages)
Nonquota
type 2
retail drink
license
(includes    $1,000
distilled
spirits,
wine, and
malt
beverages)
Nonquota
type 3
retail drink
license
(includes    $300
distilled
spirits,
wine, and
malt
beverages)
Special
temporary
alcoholic
beverage      
auction
license per
event
Special
Sunday       $100
retail drink
license
Extended
hours        $2,000
supplemental
license
Caterer s    $300
license
Bottling
house or
bottling     $1,000
house
storage
license
Brewer s     $200
license
Microbrewery $200
license
Malt
beverage     $100
distributor
s license
Nonquota
retail malt
beverage     $50
package
license
Nonquota
type 4
retail malt  $50
beverage
drink
license
Limited
restaurant
license
(includes
distilled    $1,200
spirits,
wine, and
malt
beverages)
Limited golf
course       $1,200
license
             Same as primary drink license for each license up to five, no fee for each
Supplemental supplemental license issued in excess of five   (B)   No person shall cause,
bar license  permit or engage in any of the actions, business or transactions authorized by
             city and state licenses within the city without both a valid city license and a
             valid state license therefor.
 
   (B)   No person shall cause, permit or engage in any of the actions,
business or transactions authorized by city and state licenses within the city
without both a valid city license and a valid state license therefor.
   (C)   Since the city license will be required to be renewed before the
renewal date for the corresponding state license, the City ABC Coordinator
shall issue a prorated provisional local license to cover the period of time
between the expiration of the previous city license and the new date for the
state renewal.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-23-13; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-6-16; Am. Ord. 2024-
04, passed 6-24-24) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 FORM; CONTENT OF CITY LICENSE.
   The city licenses authorized and established by this chapter shall each be
evidenced by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by
regulation of the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, that each document
evidencing a city license shall be of the same designation as that of the
corresponding state license, and shall comply with the provisions of KRS
243.440.
('88 Code, § 111.21) (Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-23-13; Am. Ord. 2024-04,
passed 6-24-24)
§ 111.22 APPLICATION; SUBMISSION AND ISSUANCE.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions described herein, city licenses
shall be originally issued by the City ABC Administrator, and renewed by the
City ABC Administrator upon the expiration thereof, upon receipt of the
following documents and fees more than 30 days prior to the effective date of
an original license, and more than 15 days prior to the expiration date of any
license to be renewed:
   (A)   The city will use the state application with information required by
KRS 243.390.
   (B)   The approval of the applicant, the application and the premises
described therein by the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Documentary evidence of a valid state license which corresponds to the
city license for which the application is being made.
   (D)   The applicable paid fee for the city license which is the subject of
the application.
('88 Code, § 111.22) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-
23-13; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-24-24)
§ 111.23 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within 30 days of the date of the application for an original city license
and 15 days of the date of an application for renewal of a city license, the
City ABC Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of either the
approval thereof or the disapproval thereof and a hearing in regard thereto.
('88 Code, § 111.23) (Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-24-24)
§ 111.24 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   As is set forth in KRS 243.430 and 243.450, the City ABC Administrator shall
not approve any application for a city license if:
   (A)   The applicant, the application, or the premises described therein do
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof has caused, permitted or engaged in any act for which the
revocation of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
were the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during the time;
   (D)   Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E)   In the exercise of sound discretion, the City ABC Administrator
determines any cause or reason for refusing to approve an application
reasonably related to the purpose and objective of this chapter and the state
laws and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Among those
factors that the City ABC Administrator shall consider in the exercise of his
discretion are: public sentiment in the area, number of licensed outlets in the
area, potential for future growth, type of area involved, type of
transportation available and financial potential of the area.
('88 Code, § 111.24) (Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-24-24)
§ 111.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall not assign or transfer any city license to any other
person or premises unless that person and/or premises complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter, the transfer of the license is approved by the City
ABC Administrator and the transfer of the state license to which the city
license corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee of $10 shall be
paid to the city for the transfer of the city license.
('88 Code, § 111.25)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.26 GROCERY, GASOLINE SELLERS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM OBTAINING
LICENSE.
   (A)   As prohibited in KRS 243.280, no city license shall be issued to sell
malt beverages at retail within or upon any premises from which gasoline and
lubricating oil are sold or from which the servicing and repair of motor
vehicles is conducted, unless there is continuously maintained an inventory on
the premises for sale at retail of not less than $5,000 of food, groceries, and
related products valued at cost.
   (B)   As prohibited by KRS 243.230, no city license shall be issued to sell
distilled spirits or wine at retail by the drink or package from any premises
used as or in connection with the operation of any business in which a
substantial part of the commercial transaction consists of selling at retail
staple groceries or gasoline or lubricating oil.
('88 Code, § 111.26) (Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-23-13)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 111.40 HOURS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 244.290 and KRS 244.480, no distilled
spirts, wine, or malt beverages may be sold at retail, whether by the drink or
by package, in the city between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any
day. On Sundays, no distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages may be sold at
retail by the drink in the city between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.,
and no distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages may be sold at retail by the
package in the city on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
   (B)   During the restricted hours set forth in division (A) of this section,
no person who has a valid city license for the sale of distilled spirits or
wine or malt beverages at retail shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the
actions, business, or transactions authorized and permitted thereby unless
otherwise provided by this section. During such times, all persons who have
such city licenses shall cause the licensed premises to be closed and vacated
by all persons except the applicant and those persons identified on the
application for such city licenses or any supplements thereto as officers,
agents, or employees of the person to whom city license was issued. All other
persons shall vacate the licensed premises and remove themselves therefrom
during such times; however, any person upon the premises who purchased any
alcoholic beverages by the drink from the licensee within 30 minutes prior to
any such times may remain upon the premises for a period not to exceed 30
minutes thereafter for the sole purpose of the consumption of the drink
purchased.
   (C)   If a separate department of the licensed premises is maintained in a
manner previously approved in writing by the ABC Administrator as being capable
of being locked, closed off, and separated from the remainder of the licensed
premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages and all fixtures
and apparatus connected with the acts of business and transactions authorized
by the state licenses and city licenses for the retail sale of distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages from such premises are located within the
approved department, and such approved department is continuously kept locked,
closed off, and separated from the remainder of the licensed premises during
such times, the remainder of the licensed premises may remain open and any
lawful activity may be conducted thereon during such times.
   (D)   All retail sellers that hold a valid license for the sale of distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverages within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
city are hereby authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages,
whether by the drink or by package, according to the terms of their individual
license, during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. the following day, on every
day except for Sundays. All retail sellers that hold a valid license for the
sale of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city are hereby authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages, by the drink, according to the terms of their individual
license, between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. on Sundays; and between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Sundays and 2:30 a.m. on Mondays. All retail sellers
that hold a valid license for the sale of wine, spirits, or malt beverages
within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city are hereby authorized to sell
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages, by package, according to the terms
of their individual license, between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. on
Sundays; and between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Sundays and 2:30 a.m. on
Mondays.
('88 Code, § 111.40) (Am. Ord. 2004-17, passed 10-18-04; Am. Ord. 2006-13,
passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-8-07; Am. Ord. 2013-09, passed 6-
3-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions hereof, that person shall fully comply with all of
the rules, regulations, requirements and prohibitions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof
and all of the rules and regulations of the City ABC Administrator in regard
thereto; all provisions of the state statutes and the rules and regulations of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard to the licensed premises
and the actions, business and transactions conducted thereon subsequent to the
issuance of a state license therefor and prior to the expiration, revocation or
suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated herein and made applicable to
all city licenses corresponding thereto, the premises described therein, and
the actions, business and transactions conducted thereon; and the city licensee
shall comply fully therewith.
('88 Code, § 111.41)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.42 MAINTENANCE OF STATE LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city license
corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
('88 Code, § 111.42)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.43 DISPLAY OF REQUIRED LICENSES AND CERTAIN SIGNS.
   As required by KRS 244.083, a city licensee who has a valid city retail
distilled spirits, wine or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed,
in a conspicuous and prominent place on the licensed premises, each of the
following documents so that they may be seen and observed by all persons
entering the licensed premises:
   (A)   A sign or placard, at least eight inches by 11 inches in size, with
the following message printed or displayed thereon in 30 point or larger type:
   “Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years are subject to a fine up to
one hundred dollars ($100) if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy or have served to them any alcoholic
beverages.
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase any alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.”
   (B)   All valid city licenses issued therefor and the state licenses to
which they correspond. The failure to so display the licenses shall be prima
facie evidence that no valid licenses have been issued or exist and all
actions, business and transactions authorized thereby conducted on the premises
are illegal and in violation of the provisions hereof and the state statutes
and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard
thereto.
('88 Code, § 111.43) (Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-23-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the display of state license required, see KRS
243.620, 244.270 and 244.360
§ 111.44 CRIMINAL CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A city licensee shall not cause, permit or engage in any conduct upon the
licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the omission
of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any law, rule or
regulation of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof or any
officer or agency thereof.
('88 Code, § 111.44)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.45 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH MINOR.
   As prohibited by KRS 244.080 and 244.085, no person shall cause, permit,
encourage, or engage in any of the following actions in the city:
   (A)   The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages by any person
under 21 years of age in or upon any licensed premises or public places; and
   (B)   The misrepresentation of the name, address, age or other
identification of any person under 21 years of age for the purpose of obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
('88 Code, § 111.45)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.46 ILLEGAL SEXUAL CONDUCT; EXPOSURE OF HUMAN BODY.
   No person shall cause, permit, encourage, display or engage in any obscene,
private erotic matter or sexual conduct as defined in KRS 531.010.
('88 Code, § 111.46) (Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-17-00; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-
24-24) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED CONTINUOUSLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A city licensee who has a valid city license shall be permitted to
conduct the actions, business and transactions authorized thereby only upon the
licensed premises.
   (B)   When no actions, business or transactions are conducted thereon for a
period of 90 consecutive calendar days, the city license therefor shall become
null and void and revoked by the City ABC Administrator unless:
      (1)   The city licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises
for which a license is issued due to an act of God; casualty; the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain; acquisition of any private corporation through its
power of eminent domain granted to it, whether the acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary; or loss of lease through failure of the landlord to renew the
existing lease; and
      (2)   Prior to the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises or
immediately thereupon if it is due to an act of God, the city licensee delivers
to the City ABC Administrator a written statement signed by the city licensee,
and verified by the oath or affirmation thereof, indicating the discontinuance
of business at the licensed premises for any of the causes or reasons described
herein.
('88 Code, § 111.47) (Am. Ord. 2004-17, passed 10-18-04; Am. Ord. 2013-16,
passed 7-23-13)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.60 [RESERVED]
§ 111.61 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the procedure set forth in KRS 243.480 through 243.590,
city licenses may be either revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
upon the occurrence of:
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
alcoholic beverage control ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in regard thereto; or
      (3)   Any other cause, reason or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board.
   (B)   However, city licenses must be revoked by the City ABC Administrator
upon the occurrence of any cause or circumstance which requires revocation of
state licenses pursuant to KRS 243.500 or the revocation of a state license to
which a city license corresponds. Further, with the approval of the City ABC
Administrator, a licensee may, as an alternative and in lieu of part or all of
the days of any suspension period, pay the sums to the city as set forth in KRS
243.480.
   (C)   The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the City ABC Administrator and mailed to
the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified mail,
describing the cause, circumstance, or occurrence and the time and date thereof
for which the city license may be revoked and indicating the time and place of
a hearing in regard thereto at least five days thereafter at which the licensee
and the representatives thereof shall be heard thereon. The hearing thereon
shall be conducted by the City ABC Administrator in the city and according to
the procedure prescribed by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for
hearings by the Board as supplemented by the regulations of the City ABC
Administrator. The City ABC Administrator shall control and make all decisions
in regard to the introduction of evidence and shall hear all arguments in
regard thereto. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City ABC Administrator
shall issue a written decision in regard thereto and mail a certified copy
thereof to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified or
registered mail.
('88 Code, § 111.62) (Ord. 2001-05, passed 8-29-01; Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-
23-13)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof in a court of
competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine for each offense or
violation of no more than $500.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
111.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $300
or be imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both. (Ord. 1987-2, passed 2-18-
87)
   (C)   Any person who violates the distillers license fee provision of §
111.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 243.990 (2), be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $200, or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than six
months, or both for the first offense. For the second offense, the person shall
be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500, or sentenced to imprisonment
for no more than six months, or both. On the third and each subsequent offense,
the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $500 nor more than
$5,000, or sentenced to imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
111.20 other than as discussed in division (B) above, or any provision of §§
111.21 through
111.26,
111.40 through
111.42,
111.44 or
111.45 (A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 243.990 (1) and 244.990 (1), be fined not less than $100
nor more than $200, or be imprisoned for no more than six months, or both for
the first offense. On the second and each subsequent offense, the person shall
be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned for no more
than six months, or both.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
111.43 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 244.990 (5), be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §
111.45 (B) shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 244.990 (5) and (6), be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $100 for misrepresentation of age. For use of a false, fraudulent or
altered identification card, paper or other document to purchase, attempt to
purchase, or otherwise obtain any alcoholic beverage, the person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500
for a first offense. For a second and each subsequent offense, the person shall
be fined not less than $200 nor more than $2,000.
('88 Code, § 111.99)
   (G)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (H)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (I)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (J)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Minor identification required
   
112.03   Duty of a business operator
   
112.04   Other business requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Amusement devices that are mechanical, electrical,
electro-mechanical or otherwise operated, whether or not requiring electrical
current for operation, whether or not registering a score, whether or not
offering any type of prize, whether or not operated by coins, tokens, discs or
keys to play, and including, but not limited to, pinball machines, ski ball
games, pin games, marble games, mechanical sport games and mechanical card
games.
('88 Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 1979-8, passed 4-16-79)
§ 112.02 MINOR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership or corporation whose primary business
operation in the city is the maintenance in the city for public use of
amusement devices, shall permit, for compensation, charge or regard, any minor
under 18 years of age to play or operate any device, unless the minor shall
have first displayed an identification card containing his name, age,
photograph and the signature of his parents or guardian.
   (B)   Any minor who enters any business establishment as hereinbefore
defined shall keep the identification card required by division (A) on his
person, and it shall be subject to inspection at any time by any peace officer.
('88 Code, § 115.02)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.03 DUTY OF A BUSINESS OPERATOR.
   (A)   The person, firm or corporation owning or controlling the business
establishment shall supply a blank identification card to each parent or
guardian who makes a request for same.
   (B)   The person, firm or corporation owning or controlling the business as
hereinbefore defined shall further keep and maintain a registration book in
which each minor shall sign indicating the date the minor entered the premises,
the time of entrance and the time of departure therefrom.
('88 Code, § 115.03)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 OTHER BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements for amusement device businesses as stated in this chapter
shall be in addition to any and all other requirements and regulations
concerning business operations in the city.
('88 Code, § 115.04)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
Each violation thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
('88 Code, § 115.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 113: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Permit required; display
   
113.03   Written statement required
   
113.04   Display of sale property
   
113.05   Sign regulations
   
113.06   Compliance with other regulations
   
113.07   General retail sales prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. A sale from a residence or residential property of personal
property which has been owned or used previously by an individual or resident
residing on the premises where the sale is conducted. A yard, patio or driveway
sale is included within the definition of GARAGE SALE. The term GARAGE SALE
does not include the mere incidental sale of one or two items of personal
property when the sale is not part of general sale of a number of items of
personal property.
('88 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 1976-19, passed 11-15-76)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; DISPLAY.
   (A)   No garage sale may be conducted within the city without a permit
having been first issued for sale by the City Clerk. The permit shall set forth
and restrict the time and location of the garage sale. No more than two permits
may be issued to one residence, family or household during any calendar year.
The permit shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight hours of two
days.
   (B)   The permit required by division (A) shall be prominently displayed at
the garage sale. ('88 Code, § 114.02)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.03 WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Prior to issuance of any garage sale permit the person conducting the sale
shall file a written statement with the City Clerk setting forth the following
information:
   (A)   Person's interest in the residential property: ownership, current
lessee or other control as the person may have.
   (B)   Ownership of the property to be sold.
   (C)   Purposes to which the property to be sold has been previously used.
   (D)   Affirmative statement that the property to be sold was neither
acquired or consigned for the purposes of resale.
('88 Code, § 114.03)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.04 DISPLAY OF SALE PROPERTY.
   No property offered for sale or sold shall be displayed outside the
permanent structures of the residence, including houses, garages and carports,
except the property as might normally be located in the lawn or yard (such as
lawn furniture, swing sets, lawnmowers, and the like) or in the rear yard of
the premises. Display in front yards, driveways or elsewhere not specifically
permitted above is prohibited.
('88 Code, § 114.04)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.05 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   One sign of not more than four square feet shall be permitted to be
displayed on the property of the residence where a garage sale is being
conducted pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter. The sign shall be
displayed only during the times of the sale as delineated on the permit. In no
case shall the sign be placed on any property other than the property of the
residence to which the permit has been issued or the public right-of-way.
('88 Code, § 114.05)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.06 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Garage sales shall be conducted in compliance with all laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations not in conflict herewith; however, no
occupational license shall be required therefor.
   (B)   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all
applicable laws and ordinances. Further, the Police Department may enforce
temporary controls which alleviate any special hazards or congestion created by
any garage sale.
('88 Code, § 114.06)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07 GENERAL RETAIL SALES PROHIBITED.
   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in residential
areas is, except as is otherwise expressly authorized under this chapter,
prohibited. Garage sales are permitted only insofar as they are conducted
consistent with the limitations set forth in this chapter.
('88 Code, § 114.07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who conducts or aids in conducting any garage sale not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation
and shall be in violation of this chapter and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100. Each day that the violation continues or
exists shall constitute a separate offense. ('88 Code, § 114.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of license fee
   
114.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
114.03   Companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
114.04   Due date; interest
   
114.05   Written breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Insurance regulations, 91A.080
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
('88 Code, § 112.01)
§ 114.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 7% with a minimum annual fee of $5 of the first year's
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of policies.
('88 Code, § 112.02)
§ 114.03 COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 7% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the city
on those classes of business which the company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225 (2) and 18A.228, or premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
('88 Code, § 112.03)
§ 114.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee under
this chapter shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee based upon premiums collected
upon lives or risks which are discovered to belocated outside the city limits,
the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those fees within 90 days of
notice to the city. License fees which are not paid on or before the due date
shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010 (6).
('88 Code, § 112.04)
§ 114.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
('88 Code, § 112.05)
CHAPTER 115: MOTELS AND HOTELS
Section
   
115.01   Motel register required
   
115.02   Registration of guests
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 MOTEL REGISTER REQUIRED.
   All motels and hotels located in the city shall maintain a motel register.
('88 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 1974-27, passed - -74)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION OF GUESTS.
   (A)   The motel register shall be a register of all guests occupying one or
more rooms at the motel and shall show for all guests:
      (1)   Name and address of each guest for which accommodations are
afforded;
      (2)   Date of entrance and departure;
      (3)   License number, make and type of all automobiles; and
      (4)   State issuing automobile licenses.
   (B)   It is made the duty and obligation of the owner, manager, attendant
and person in charge of the motel to ensure that the register is maintained in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The register referred to above shall be open for inspection at all
times by state, federal, county and city officers.
('88 Code, § 113.02)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any corporation, partnership or individual violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon
conviction in the county district court, be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100 plus court costs. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a
separate violation. ('88 Code, § 113.99) (Am. Ord. 1978-3, passed 1-16-78)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 116: RESERVED
CHAPTER 117: JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Establishment of incentives
   
117.03   Collection options
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT. Any agreement made pursuant to this chapter between the city and
an approved company with respect to an economic development project.
   APPLICANT. A business whose employees are primarily engaged or will be
engaged in professional, administrative or technical occupations, or a
manufacturer, which business or manufacturer is located, or proposes to locate
its business, in the city, and which commits by agreement to maintain existing
jobs in the event that the business has a reasonable probability of relocating
outside the city, or create a minimum new jobs and annual payroll within the
city as hereinafter provided. An applicant shall not include sexually oriented
businesses or businesses that are primarily engaged in the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
   APPROVED COMPANY. An applicant that the Mayor deems to have qualified for an
incentive.
   APPROVED COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES. The full - or part-time employees of an
approved company who perform services within the city and are subject to the
city’s occupational license fee as set forth in §
110.26(A) of the city’s Code of Ordinances.
   COMMENCEMENT DATE. The date that the incentive is first available to the
approved company as provided in the agreement.
   INCENTIVE. Up to a 50% reduction in the rate of the occupational license
fees collected by an approved company from an approved company’s employees or,
alternatively in the event the approved company is withholding and remitting to
the city the full amount of the occupational license fee from the approved
company’s employees pursuant to §
117.03(A)(2), up to a 50% refund from the city for payment of the fees at the
end of each incentive year, for a term not to exceed five years, provided the
approved company agrees to operate its business within the city, or forfeit and
repay to the city its incentive should it relocate prior to expiration of the
agreed upon term, and up to a 25% reduction in the rate of the occupational
license fees collected by the approved company from the approved company’s
employees or alternatively in the event the approved company is withholding and
remitting to the city the full amount of the occupational license fee from the
approved company’s employees pursuant to §
117.03(A)(2), up to a 25% refund from the city for payment of the fees at the
end of each incentive year, for a term not to exceed ten years.
   INCENTIVE YEAR. The 12 month period beginning on the commencement date, and
each 12 month period thereafter during the term for which the incentive is
available to the approved company.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 4-5-11; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed 7-11-11)
§ 117.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF INCENTIVES.
   (A)   To the extent any applicant creates or retains a minimum of 25 jobs
("Jobs"), and creates or retains a minimum annual payroll of $2,500,000 that is
subject to the city's occupational license fee ("Payroll") within any given
year as provided in the agreement, the applicant shall qualify for an
incentive. The incentive will continue for the authorized term of up to five or
ten years, as applicable, provided that the approved company maintains or
exceeds the jobs and payroll requirement during any particular successive year,
and otherwise is in compliance with the terms of the agreement.
   (B)   In order to be eligible to receive an incentive, an applicant must
first submit a signed application to the Mayor of the city, for his or her
approval, on a form prescribed by the Mayor, and will provide any additional
information reasonably requested to enable the Mayor to evaluate the
application. If an application is accepted, the agreement will be executed by
the Mayor on behalf of the city and the approved company. No approved company
will be eligible to receive an incentive until the agreement has been properly
executed. The Mayor is entitled to include the terms and conditions within the
agreement as he deems appropriate to ensure that the city receives the full
value of any benefits to be gained, including, without limitation, provisions
requiring continuing operation within the city for a period beyond the
incentive period, provisions for reimbursement of incentives and potential
penalties not to exceed 50% of the incentives offered in the event of default
by the approved company, and appropriate conditions precedent to the triggering
of incentives to ensure the city receives the full revenue and job benefits
deemed appropriate, within the limits set forth in division (A).
   (C)   If the approved company does not comply with the agreement by failing
to create jobs and/or payroll within any particular year during the term of the
agreement, then the approved company shall not receive the incentive for that
year.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 4-5-11; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed 7-11-11)
§ 117.03 COLLECTION OPTIONS.
   (A)   In the case of an incentive, upon agreement with the city, through its
Mayor, the approved company shall:
      (1)   Require that each employee subject to the city's occupational tax,
as a condition of employment, agree to pay a job development assessment fee, up
to the amount of the incentive approved by the city, and not to exceed 0.5% of
all compensation earned by an employee for labor, work or services provided in
the city, whose job was created as a result of the economic development project
in the case of a five year incentive, or 0.25% of all compensation earned by an
employee for labor, work or services provided in the city, whose job was
created as a result of the economic development project in the case of a ten
year incentive; or
      (2)   Withhold and remit to the city the full amount of the occupational
license tax from its approved company employees consistent with all applicable
laws and ordinances, and receive a reimbursement from the city of the incentive
in the form of a refund at the end of each incentive year.
   (B)   Should the approved company elect to collect its incentive by means of
a job development assessment fee as provided in division (A)(1):
      (1)   The approved company shall be authorized to deduct the assessment,
consistent with the terms of division (A)(1), from each paycheck of each
approved company employee;
      (2)   Each employee so assessed shall be entitled to a credit against the
city occupational tax thereof equal to the job development assessment fee
withheld from his or her wages during the calendar year.
   (C)   Should the approved company elect to collect its incentive from the
city by withholding and remitting to the city the full amount of the
occupational license fee from its employees as provided in division (A)(2), the
city, upon satisfaction that the approved company has met all of the terms and
requirements of the agreement, shall then remit the incentive to the approved
company within 90 days after the end of each incentive year.
   (D)   Any approved company receiving an incentive shall make its payroll
book and records available to the city at such reasonable times as the city
shall request, and shall file with the city documentation respecting any
employee assessment as the city may require.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 7-11-11)
CHAPTER 118: DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Permits
   
118.03   Prohibitions
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings:
   ANTI-SOLICITATION PROPERTY. Any property in the city that has been:
      (1)   Posted with signs containing the words “No Solicitors” or “No
Trespassing” or other words of similar import thereon; and
      (2)   Registered by an owner or occupant thereof with the City Clerk as
property to which uninvited residential solicitors are prohibited.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, organization, or combination thereof in the form
of an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. The in-person solicitation of contributions,
donations or pledges, the sales, rental, or leasing of goods or service, or
orders or subscriptions therefor, including, without limitation, the activities
of those historically known and identified as peddlers, hawkers, canvassers,
itinerant vendors and transient merchants, provided they are involved in the
provision of sales, rental, or leasing of goods or services.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being or organization, or combination thereof in the
form of an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   NOBODY. No human being or organization, or combination thereof in the form
of an individual. corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. All solicitation other than commercial
solicitations as defined herein.
   NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. A tax-exempt organization and the members,
employees, or volunteers acting on its behalf, under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c).
   PERMIT REVIEW OFFICER (PRO). The City Administrative Officer or, in the
absence of the City Administrative Officer, the Police Chief.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. A solicitor who has obtained a city occupational
license, if necessary, and registered with the City Clerk for and been granted
a residential solicitation permit, or engages in solicitation under the
authority of a group solicitation permit, as provided in §
118.02(A). The application shall be applied for by completing a solicitor
registration form as provided in §
118.02(B), or a group solicitation registration form as provided in §
118.02(C).
   SOLICITOR. Anybody who engages in commercial solicitation.
   UNINVITED RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION. A commercial solicitation at a residence
in the city, without prior appointment or other invitation therefor by an owner
or occupant of the residence.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-19-13)
§ 118.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits, generally.
      (1)   Permit types. There shall be two types of permits that may be
granted, a residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit. There
shall be forms, which may be obtained by the City Clerk, for each permit.
         (a)   A residential solicitation permit is a permit issued to an
individual and provides a license to engage in commercial solicitation to that
individual for a period of not less than seven days, nor more than one year, as
determined by the City Administrative Officer, or, in the absence of a City
Administrative Officer, the Police Chief, as provided in this section.
         (b)   A group solicitation permit is a permit issued to a non-profit
organization.
         (c)   Permits shall be applied for by submitting a solicitor
registration form as provided in §
118.02(B), or a group solicitation registration form as provided in §
118.02(C), with the information required by those divisions.
      (2)   Permit applications, generally. Each application for an residential
solicitation permit or group solicitation permit required by this chapter shall
be signed by the applicant or an authorized representative of the applicant,
who shall attest to the truth of the statements therein, with knowledge that
any false statements constitute perjury, for which the signatory may be
prosecuted and punished according to law; and the signatures shall be notarized
according to law.
      (3)   Permit reviews.  Each application for a residential solicitation
permit or group solicitation permit required by this chapter that is received
and accepted by the City Clerk shall be immediately referred to the PRO, who
shall review it according to the following standards within 14 days after its
receipt and acceptance by the City Clerk.
         (a)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required
to have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business that is the subject of the application; the license,
permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have been duly
issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the issuance of
the residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit. Documentary
evidence of the issuance satisfactory to the PRO shall be provided by the
applicant.
         (b)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent the record includes conviction of
a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type that is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the PRO shall consider:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted.
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business.
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
            4.   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (c)   1.   The PRO shall consider whether the business is of a type
that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a probability of generating
or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the health, safety,
morals and welfare of the citizens and residents of the city, or will
constitute a nuisance.
            2.   In the event that the applicant, business, authorized
representative of either, predecessor in interest, or prior business or
operation as the business or applicant has had their occupational license
revoked or suspended (with the suspension period still in effect) for any
reason, including any revocation or suspension under §
92.19(B) of the city Chronic Nuisance Ordinance, the PRO shall have sufficient
cause to deny the application.
            3.   The PRO shall consider whether the applicant, business,
authorized representative of either, predecessor in interest, or prior business
or operation has previously violated this chapter on more than one occasion;
the PRO shall deny the application.
         (d)   The PRO shall consider the business history of the applicant,
including:
            1.   Whether the persons named and identified in the application
have been denied or had a similar permit suspended or revoked by the city or
any other city, county or state, and the reasons therefor.
            2.   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
         (e)   The PRO shall consider whether the persons named and identified
in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent taxes, assessments,
fines or similar obligations.
         (f)   The PRO shall consider whether the applicant complies with all
applicable laws.
         (g)   The PRO shall deny the application if there are any false
statements in the application, or if the applicant submitted an application
within the past five years with any false statements.
         (h)   After review of the application in conformity with this chapter,
the PRO shall notify the City Clerk, or any designee thereof, of either:
            1.   The approval of the application, and the duration of the
permit, not to last less than seven days nor more than one year, depending on
the nature of the application, products, and similar grounds; or
            2.   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the PRO shall determine and require
those conditions that are reasonably necessary to accomplish the intent of this
chapter, including, without limitation:
               a.   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the PRO in a reasonable amount determined by the PRO to ensure
compliance.
               b.   A requirement that any outstanding indebtedness owed to the
city be paid before a specified date.
               c.   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic record
inspection of sales within the city and such other requirements as deemed
necessary by the PRO to ensure compliance with this section.
            3.   The disapproval of the application.
      (4)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk receives a written
notice from the PRO within 14 days after an application for a residential
solicitation permit or group solicitation permit required by this chapter has
been referred to the PRO for review pursuant to this chapter, that the
application was either conditionally approved or disapproved, the City Clerk,
or the designee thereof, shall issue the residential solicitation permit or
group solicitation permit that is the subject of the application, and mail it
to the applicant at the address indicated in the application; and, thereafter,
the applicant may engage in solicitation until that permit expires or is
suspended or revoked according to the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City
Clerk receives a written notice from the PRO within 14 days after an
application for a residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit
required by this chapter has been referred to the PRO for review pursuant to
this chapter, that the application was conditionally approved, the City Clerk
shall notify the applicant thereof and the reasons therefor identified by the
PRO, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
applicant indicated in the application, along with a notice that the permit
will be issued by the City Clerk only upon receipt by the City Clerk of a
written signed acceptance by the applicant of the conditions to be performed
prior to the issuance of the permit. The notice shall also state that if the
acceptance is not received by the City Clerk within such time, the application
will thereby be disapproved.
      (6)   Disapproval of application.  In the event that the City Clerk
receives a written notice from the PRO within 14 days after an application for
a residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit required by this
chapter has been referred to the PRO for review pursuant to this chapter, that
the application was disapproved bv the PRO, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant of that denial and the reasons therefor identified by the PRO, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant
indicated in the application, and a notice of the procedure established in this
chapter for an appeal from the denial of that application.
      (7)   Permit revocation or suspension.
         (a)   Any residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit
required by this chapter may be revoked or suspended bv the PRO for any period
of time determined by the PRO to be reasonable and appropriate for any of the
following reasons; but only after a due process evidentiary hearing in regard
thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the permittee at the address
indicated in the permittee's application, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten days prior to the hearing:
            1.   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the permit application.
            2.   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the
conditions of a conditional permit or this chapter, by the permittee or any
person operating under a permittee's permit.
            3.   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in
the permit application, or operating under a permittee's permit, of a felony, a
misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any other confinement is a possible
penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude is involved, or any other
crime which directly relates to a business of the type for which the permit was
issued. However, the consideration of such a criminal conviction shall include:
               a.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the
person was convicted.
               b.   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the
regulation of the business.
               c.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
               d.   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
            4.   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of
any license, permit, degree, certification or similar document required by any
applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which the
permit was issued.
            5.   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the
business by any person engaged therein.
            6.   Violations of applicable laws by any person acting in concert
or connection with the permittee or under the control thereof.
            7.   The revocation or suspension of a residential solicitation
permit or group solicitation permit pursuant to this chapter shall be in
addition to the imposition of any other penalty prescribed by ordinance or any
other applicable law.
      (8)   Appeals.
         (a)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
residential solicitation permit or group solicitation permit required by this
chapter, or any suspension or revocation of any such permit may be appealed to
the Mayor, by filing with the City Clerk, within seven days after the
conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension, the following:
            1.   A written notice of the appeal; and
            2.   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal; and
            3.   A statement why there should be an approval without
conditions, or no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
            4.   An appeal fee in the sum of $200, to provide for the expenses
of conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
         (b)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to
the conditional approval or disapproval, suspension or revocation shall be
conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing officer appointed by the Mayor, who
shall file a record with the Mayor, with a written recommendation regarding
findings of fact, conclusions of law and a decision based thereon. Within 90
days after the date the appeal was filed, the Mayor shall issue a written
decision in regard thereto, including findings of fact, conclusions of law and
a decision based upon a record of the due process hearing. The appellant shall
be notified of the Mayor’s decision by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at the address thereof indicated in the application for the license.
Unless an appeal is filed within 14 davs after Mayor’s decision, in the court
having jurisdiction thereof, the Mayor’s decision shall become final.
   (B)   Residential solicitation permit; permit fee.
      (1)   A residential solicitation permit form shall be created by the PRO
and approved by the Mayor. The form shall include information related to the
applicant that is reasonably calculated to provide adequate personal and
business background information to assure that the applicant is a responsible
person engaging in a lawful activity. The form may include, but not be limited
to, the name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, and date and
place of birth of the applicant. Additionally, the form may require information
such as a picture identification, and a description of any vehicle used by the
applicant. The form shall be obtained in the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   A residential solicitation permit shall be issued to a single
individual, is non-transferable, shall bear the signature of the PRO, photo of
the applicant, a permit number, the issuance date, and the expiration date. The
PRO may have the Police Department run a criminal background check of the
applicant prior to making a decision on any application.
      (3)   The form shall be signed by the applicant and contain a
certification by the applicant that the applicant has not been convicted of any
felony or any other crime involving theft, burglary, fraud or moral turpitude
within the last three years.
      (4)   There is established a fee of $25 for each application lasting
between seven and 90 days; and a fee of $100 for each application lasting
longer than 90 days, up to one year; provided that the fee shall be waived if
the applicant is soliciting on behalf of a non-profit organization, and
provides sufficient proof of that fact, including a copy of non-profit
determination by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as an authorization
letter on behalf of the non-profit organization, identifying the applicant as
soliciting on behalf of the non-profit organization, with the date of such
letter to be within 14 days of the date of the application.
   (C)   Group solicitation permit.
      (1)   A group solicitation permit form shall be created by the PRO and
approved by the Mayor. The form shall include information related to the
applicant that is reasonably calculated to provide adequate personal and
background information to assure that the applicant is a responsible person
engaging in a lawful activity. The form may include, but not be limited to, the
name, address, telephone number, and tax identification number of the
applicant, and the person who will oversee the solicitation activity in the
city. Additionally, the form may require information such as corporate and tax
information relative to the applicant, and a description of any vehicle used by
the applicant. The form shall be obtained in the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   A group solicitation permit issued to a non-profit organization
shall bear the signature of the PRO, a permit number, the issuance date, and
the expiration date.
      (3)   The form shall be signed by the applicant and contain a
certification by the applicant that the applicant has not been convicted of any
felony or any other crime involving theft, burglary, fraud or moral turpitude
within the last three years.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-19-13) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, permit, promote, suffer, allow, aid, assist,
encourage, or engage in any of the following described uninvited residential
solicitations:
      (1)   Commercial solicitation at or on any anti-solicitation property; or
      (2)   Commercial solicitation by anybody other than a registered
solicitor; or
      (3)   Commercial solicitation on any day before 9:00 a.m. or after 7:00
p.m., prevailing time, Monday through Friday; and before 10:00 a.m. or after 5:
00 p.m., prevailing time, on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   No holder of a residential solicitation permit shall engage in any
commercial solicitation without a copy of that permit on his or her person; and
no representative of a holder of a group solicitation permit, age 18 years or
older, shall engage in any commercial solicitation without a copy of that
permit on his or her person.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-19-13) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
118.03(A)(2) of this chapter shall be a Class A misdemeanor for which any
person convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500, as
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months, as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both for a
first offence; and to pay a criminal fine of not less than $250 but not to
exceed $500 for a second or greater offence, and a term of imprisonment of not
less than two days, but not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months, as set
forth in KRS 532.090(1). Any corporation convicted of a violation of §
118.03(A)(2) of this chapter shall be fined not more than $10,000, as set forth
in KRS 534.050(l)(b), for a first offence, and to pay a fine of at least
$3,000, but not more than $10,000, for a second or greater offence.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter, except a violation of §
118.03(A)(2), shall be a Class B misdemeanor for which any person convicted
thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a
criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $250, as set forth in KRS
534,040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 90
days as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both; any corporation convicted of a
violation of §
118.03(A)(2) of this chapter shall be fined not more than $5,000, as set forth
in KRS 534,050(1)(c).
   (C)   In addition to the criminal penalties set forth herein, any violation
of this chapter is hereby also classified as a civil offense, pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $250 for the second offense, and
$500 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the maximum civil fine that may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense,
from $60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1.800 for the third,
and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   Each section of this chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of this chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-19-13)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Carrying concealed deadly weapons prohibited
   
130.02   Discharging of firearm prohibited
   
130.03   Sale of toxic glue prohibited
   
130.04   Curfew
   
130.05   Laser devices
Littering
   
130.15   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
130.16   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
130.17   Hauling loose material
   
130.18   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
130.19   Litter on private property
Bows and Arrows
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Restrictions; safety zones
   
130.32   Applies only to outdoor archery
   
130.33   Additional requirements
   
130.34   Violations and penalties
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter 237, the city does hereby
prohibit the carrying of concealed deadly weapons, including firearms, in all
buildings or portions thereof owned, leased or occupied by the city. This
provision shall not apply to any police officer authorized to carry a concealed
deadly weapon.
   (B)   All buildings or portions of buildings where the carrying of concealed
deadly weapons is prohibited shall be clearly identified by signs posted at the
entrance to the restricted area.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating this section may be denied entrance to
the building or ordered to leave the building.
   (D)   In addition, any employee of the city who violates this section shall
be subject to employee disciplinary measures.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any building or portion thereof used
for public housing by private persons, highway rest areas, firing ranges or
private dwellings, owned, leased or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 1996-16, passed 11-4-96) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING OF FIREARM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any firearm or airgun loaded with bullets,
shot, slugs or other hard substances, anywhere within the city, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no adult person shall
furnish to a minor by gift, loan or hire, any airgun with the knowledge or
intent that the minor is to discharge same within the limits of the city. Proof
of the furnishing of the airgun by an adult, with the further proof of the
discharge thereof by the minor within the city, shall constitute a presumption
that the airgun was furnished with the knowledge or intent that it was to be
fired by the minor within the city.
   (C)   It shall be lawful and not a violation of this section to discharge
shotguns or similar weapons for the sole purpose of trapshooting or skeet-
shooting, provided that the owner of the property where the trapshooting or
skeet-shooting takes place shall have previously obtained from the Chief of
Police a permit to conduct a trapshoot or skeet-shoot. The permits may be
issued by the Chief of Police only to the owner of the real estate where the
event is to take place, and the permits shall be valid only for a period of one
day's duration.
   (D)   It shall be lawful and not a violation of this section for a person to
discharge an airgun loaded with round projectiles made of metal, hard plastic,
or paintballs, including BBs, airsoft pellets, or paintballs. provided that:
      (1)   The discharged projectile does not enter any adjoining property,
without the express written permission of the adjoining property owner;
      (2)   The discharged projectile is not fired at, and does not strike, any
person without that person's permission, or any cat or dog or other pet;
      (3)   Any discharge by a minor is supervised by an adult; and
      (4)   No discharge shall occur such that any projectile is fired onto,
over, or from any public street, right-of-way, or public property.
   (E) Division (A) of this section shall not apply to any peace officer who
discharges a firearm in connection with the performance of his duties as a
peace officer, nor shall this section apply to a person using self-defense or
other lawful justification as provided in KRS Chapter 503.
('88 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 1967-21, passed 12-18-67; Am. Ord. 2013-07, passed
4-1-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SALE OF TOXIC GLUE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOXIC GLUE. Any glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, plastic solvent or other
material containing toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl, alcohol, hexane, tricresol
phosphate or other toxic ingredients including, but not limited to, those
having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
   (B)   No person shall inhale, drink, eat or otherwise induce into his
respiratory or circulatory system any toxic glue so as to become intoxicated,
elated, paralyzed, irrational, exhilarated, stupefied or in any other manner
changing, distorting or disturbing the eyesight, thinking process, judgment,
balance or coordination of that person. However, this section shall not apply
to the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
   (C)   No person, firm, corporation or partnership shall for the purpose of
violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this section
intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive possession of
any toxic glue.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (E), no person under
18 years of age shall possess or buy any toxic glue.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (E), no person, firm or
corporation shall sell or transfer possession of any toxic glue to another
person under 18 years of age.
      (3)   A person, firm or corporation may sell or transfer possession of
toxic glue to a person under 18 years of age for model building or other lawful
use where the minor has in his possession and exhibits the written consent of
his parent or guardian.
   (E)   A person, firm or corporation making a sale or transfer of possession
of toxic glue to a person under 18 years of age who exhibits the written
consent of his parent or guardian, shall record the name, address, sex and age
of the minor, and the name and address of the consenting parent or guardian.
All data required by this division shall be kept in a permanent-type register
available for inspection by the Chief of Police, for a period of at least one
year from the date of the sale or transfer of possession.
('88 Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew for minors. It is a curfew violation for a person under 18
years of age to be in a public place in the city at night after the hour of 11:
00 p.m.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating this section's provisions and may take the minor into custody when
found violating provisions of this section. The officer shall take the minor to
the city police headquarters where the name of the minor's parent, guardian or
person having legal custody of him shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child's detention as required by KRS 610.200 and summoned by
the investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian or person having legal
custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was taken into
custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set forth in
KRS Chapter 610 and other applicable provisions of the State Unified Juvenile
Code, regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his parent, guardian, person having
legal custody or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) of this section has occurred, he shall cause formal
charges to be filed requiring the child and his parent, guardian or person
having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the charge of
a violation of division (A).
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by the person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at the time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court as required by KRS 610.200.
('88 Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 LASER DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term LASER DEVICE shall mean
any of several devices that convert incident electromagnetic radiation of mixed
frequencies to one or more discreet frequencies of highly amplified and
coherent visible radiation, as well as any othersuch device operating on the
principle of light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. It shall be unlawful for a person to point or
otherwise direct the beam from a laser device into the eye(s) or onto the body
of another person. It shall be unlawful for any person to point or otherwise
direct the beam from a laser device into the eye(s) or onto the body of an
animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to point or otherwise direct the
beam from a laser device toward any occupied vehicle.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of a laser
device by any licensed and qualified physician, veterinarian or medical
technician for diagnostic or treatment purposes. Nothing herein shall prohibit
the use of a laser device by any person for scientific, commercial or
industrial purposes, provided the laser device is not directed into the eye(s)
or onto the body of another person or toward an occupied vehicle. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the use of a laser device by any student, regularly
enrolled in any educational institution, provided such use is in a controlled
laboratory or classroom setting, with the permission and under the direct
supervision of a licensed teacher or instructor. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the use of a laser device by any person possessing a valid hunting
license, provided the laser device is used as an aiming device, properly
mounted and affixed to a fire arm and not directed into the eye(s) or onto the
body of another person or toward an occupied vehicle. Nothing in this section
shall prohibit the use of a laser device by any person at a licensed target
range, provided the laser device is used as an aiming device, properly mounted
and affixed to a fire arm and not directed into the eye(s) or onto the body of
another person or toward an occupied vehicle. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the use of a laser device by any peace officer.
(Ord. 1999-7, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
130.99
LITTERING
§ 130.15 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
('88 Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street, alley or other public place a
vehicle with mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter on its
wheels or other parts if this operation results in the depositing or tracking
of mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter on any street, alley
or other public place.
   (B)   No person being owner of real property or a prime contractor in charge
of a construction site shall maintain the property or construction site so that
vehicles upon the property or construction site pick up mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter on the wheels or other parts of the
vehicles and deposit or track the mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter onto any street, alley or other public place. (Ord. 1986-3,
passed 4-7-86)
('88 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Tracking of foreign matter at construction sites, see §
150.15
§ 130.17 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless the vehicle is so constructed and loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being thrown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. No person, being the owner, driver or other person in
charge of a vehicle hauling excavated material, coal, coke, construction or
building materials or other materials within the city shall permit any part of
this material to fall, drop or be blown therefrom on a city street, alley or
other public place. When a vehicle carries trash, sawdust, ashes, cinders,
sand, earth, lime, manure or other substance liable to be blown away, the
owner, driver or other person in charge thereof shall, before driving or
operating it on any street, alley or other public place, cause the substance or
substances to be completely covered with a canvas, duck or other substantial
covering in a manner that the substance or substances cannot fall or be blown
from the vehicle.
('88 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-86) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
('88 Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other public
places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
('88 Code, § 92.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
BOWS AND ARROWS
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHERY RANGE. Any and all property(s) used for the discharge of an arrow
from a bow or crossbow including the required safety zones.
   ARROW. A projectile composed of a straight shaft and a pointed end, and with
stabilizing vanes or feathers.
   BOW. A device composed of a curved piece of wood, plastic, fiberglass, metal
or similar material strung taut from end to end, and shall include without
limitation longbows, recurve bows and compound bows.
   CROSSBOW. A device composed of a bow fixed crosswise on a stock, on which
stock arrows or other projectiles are directed by means of a groove.
   FITA a.k.a. WORLD ARCHERY. The Federation International de Tir L'Arc.
   NAA. The National Archery Association, a.k.a. USA Archery.
   NASP®. The National Archery in Schools Program.
   NFAA. The National Field Archery Association.
   4-H. The Youth Development Program of the U.S. Cooperative Extension System.
   TARGET. An archery target substantial enough to stop an arrow and not allow
the nock end of an arrow to completely pass through, regardless of the archer,
type of bow or crossbow, and regardless of where the arrow may strike the
target.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-4-12)
§ 130.31 RESTRICTIONS; SAFETY ZONES.
   The discharge of an arrow from a bow or crossbow is permitted within the
city only in strict accordance with the following:
   (A)   No person shall use a bow or crossbow to discharge an arrow from any
city street, sidewalk or public right-of-way. No arrow shall be discharged so
as to cross any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way.
   (B)   The discharge of an arrow from a bow or crossbow shall be conducted
only during daylight hours.
   (C)   No person shall draw a bow or crossbow and/or discharge an arrow so as
to leave the property on which it was discharged, unless the person has express
written permission from the contiguous property owner whose property the arrow
may enter. All arrows discharged must be aimed at a fixed target, and the
target must be located on the same property on which the archer is discharging
the arrow.
   (D)   The target must be maintained in good condition, capable of stopping
arrows regardless of the archer, type of bow or crossbow, and regardless of
where the arrow may strike the target.
   (E)   (1)   For targets orientated so that the archer is discharging the
arrow toward the exterior property lines of the property, a safety zone of no
less than 150 feet (50 yards) behind the target is required. In addition, a
lateral (side) safety zone is required on each side of the target along the
length of the entire archery range as follows:
 
Distance to Target Minimum Side Safety Zone Required
up to 16 yards     24 feet
16 - 20 yards      30 feet
20 - 25 yards      38 feet
25 - 30 yards      45 feet
over 30 yards      one-half target distance
 
      (2)   The safety zones may include property contiguous to the property
from which the arrow is being discharged only if expressed written permission
is given by the property owner of the contiguous property. The safety zones
must allow an arrow to land without striking any unintended object.
   (F)   For targets orientated such that the archer is discharging the arrow
away from the exterior property lines, toward the interior of the property, and
the primary residence, garage, or other substantial permanent structure is
directly behind the target, a backstop of adequate size and sufficiency shall
be used to prevent an arrow from leaving the property from which it has been
discharged. All backstops must be capable of stopping an arrow regardless of
the archer, type of bow or crossbow, and regardless of where the arrow may
strike the backstop. The primary residence, garage or other substantial
permanent structure shall serve as a secondary backstop and must meet the
requirements of a backstop set forth above in this division (F). In addition, a
lateral (side) safety zone as provided in division (E) above shall be required.
For any other targets orientated such that the archer is discharging the arrow
away from the exterior property lines, toward the interior of the property, and
there is no primary residence, garage, or other substantial permanent structure
directly behind the target, all safety zones set forth in division (E) above
shall apply.
   (G)   When shooting a bow or crossbow, the archer must be able to clearly
see that the area between himself or herself and the target is clear of
everyone and everything except the target. Additionally, the archer must be
able to see that the safety zone beyond and alongside the target is clear.
   (H)   The archery range shall be in an area where it is visible to anyone
approaching the range so that anyone can clearly see that archery is being
practiced. The archery range shall allow such visibility to anyone approaching
so that the person has adequate ability to safely avoid the archery range and
the safety zones.
   (I)   Anyone under the age of 16 years of age discharging any arrow from a
bow or crossbow must be under the direct supervision of a responsible adult at
all times.
   (J)   For any organized outdoor archery shooting event or program taking
place within the city limits, F1TA, a.k.a. World Archery, NFAA, NASP®, NAA, or
4-H rules and regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-4-12)
§ 130.32 APPLIES ONLY TO OUTDOOR ARCHERY.
   The regulations and restrictions set forth herein shall apply only to
archery conducted outdoors.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-4-12)
§ 130.33 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Anyone desiring to discharge an arrow with a bow or crossbow on their
property within the city limits must first submit to the city, a residential
archery range form, which form shall be substantially similar to that set forth
on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 2012-11, passed 11-5-12 and incorporated
herein by reference, and shall attest to receiving a copy of these regulations
from the city. Persons having an archery range located on any property
containing three or more acres shall be exempt from providing a static archery
range design/sketch as part of their residential archery range form. Any
property owner allowing any other person(s) to discharge an arrow from a bow or
crossbow on his or her property shall inform such person(s) of these
regulations and assure that such person(s) abide by the regulations.
   (B)   No person shall discharge an arrow from a bow or crossbow outdoors
within the city except in strict compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 2012-11, passed 11-5-12)
§ 130.34 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties set forth below herein, in the event that
any archery range, including but not limited to the target, backstop or safety
zone is determined by the city not to comply with the provisions hereof, then
no person shall be permitted to discharge an arrow from the property until the
archery range is in full compliance with the provisions set forth herein.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and the classification is intended, and
shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-4-12)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation, other than a minor, violating any of
the provisions of §
130.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for a period
not to exceed six months, or both so fined and imprisoned upon conviction in a
court of competent jurisdiction. Each day a violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. Any minor violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
dealt with in accordance with the appropriate juvenile laws of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky. ('88 Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 1969-4, passed 2-17-69)
   (C)   Any child violating any provision of division (A) of §
130.04 shall be subject to the procedures and penalties provided for by the
State Unified Juvenile Code. Any parent, guardian or person having legal
custody of a child who violates any provision of division (A) §
130.04 may be subject to the financial penalty provided for in KRS 610.180.
('88 Code, § 130.03)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
130.15 through
130.19 for which a penalty is not specified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
130.16 or
130.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $500. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-86)
('88 Code, § 94.99)
   (F)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
130.05 shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $100, imprisoned for not
more than 50 days, or both. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1999-7, passed 7-19-99)
   (G)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to
Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained herein or
in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (H)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (I)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (J)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   SMOKE DETECTORS
   
152.   SWIMMING POOLS
   
153.   WITHHOLDING LICENSES; PERMITS PENDING RESOLUTION OF PROCEEDINGS
INVOLVING REAL ESTATE
   
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
   
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code,
Kentucky Electric Code, and Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
Additional Building Code Provisions
   
150.10   [Reserved]
   
150.11   Enforcement by Building Inspector
   
150.12   Permit fees
   
150.13   Occupancy permit requirements
   
150.14   Height restrictions on aerials, towers and antennas
   
150.15   Tracking of foreign matter from construction sites
   
150.16   Removal of foreign matter by city; lien
Additional Electrical Code Provisions
   
150.25   Administration and enforcement of Electrical Code
   
150.26   License required
   
150.27   Reciprocal enforcement
   
150.28   Exemptions
Additional Standards of Safety
   
150.40   Application to single-family dwellings
   
150.41   Enforcement of Standards of Safety
   
150.42   Powers of State Fire Marshall
Additional Plumbing Code Provisions
   
150.50   Permit required; application
Additional Property Maintenance Code Provisions
   
150.60   Amendments to Property Maintenance Code
   
150.61   Effect of adoption of Code
   
150.62   Administration and enforcement of Code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE, KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL CODE,
KENTUCKY ELECTRIC CODE, AND STANDARDS OFSAFETY.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained inChapter 7, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the National Electric Code; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Chapter
20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky
Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments from time to time
adopted, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of
ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   In addition to being a general offense, and subject to the penalties
in § 150.99, any violation of the Kentucky Residential Code, the Kentucky
Electric Code, and/or the International Property Maintenance Code shall
constitute a civil offense pursuant to Chapter 41 of this code of ordinances
and KRS 65.8808.
(‘88 Code, §150.01) (Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code published by the International
Code Council, Inc., together with any amendments and/or supplements from time
to time adopted, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city, except
for the specific provisions set forth in § 150.60 hereof, is hereby adopted as
the property maintenance code of the city for the control of buildings and
structures. Each and all of the regulations of the International Property
Maintenance Code, together with any amendments and/or supplements from time to
time adopted, except those specific sections of such code set forth in §
150.60, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
(‘88 Code, §150.02) (Ord. 1983-14, passed 12-19-83; Am. Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-
3-97; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
ADDITIONAL BUILDING CODE PROVISIONS
§ 150.10 [RESERVED]
§ 150.11 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The primary responsibility for the enforcement of the Kentucky
Building Code, the Kentucky Residential Code, and the International Property
Maintenance Code, herein adopted shall be with the Building Inspector, or any
other individual or entity authorized by the city to enforce the foregoing; and
for purposes of this §150.11, the term Building Inspector shall include the
Building Inspector and any individual or entity so authorized by the city; and
the term Building Code shall include the Kentucky Building Code, the Kentucky
Residential Code, and the International Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall receive applications required by this
Code, issue permits, and furnish the prescribed certificates. He shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. He shall enforce all provisions of the
Building Code. He shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the public
interest so requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred
to in the Building Code and render written reports on the same. To enforce
compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the
necessary safeguards during construction or to require adequate exit facilities
in buildings and structures, he shall issue those notices or orders as may be
necessary.
   (C)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the Building Inspector or his duly appointed assistant. The Building
Inspector may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services,
after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No certificate
called for by any provision of the Building Code shall be issued on the reports
unless the same are in writing and certified to by a responsible officer of the
service.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, permits issued, certificates issued, inspections made reports
rendered and notices or orders issued. He shall retain on file copies of
required plans and all documents relating to building work so long as any part
of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence. All
records shall be open to public inspection for good and sufficient reasons at
the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the
Building Inspector without his written consent.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall make written reports to his immediate
superior once each month or more often if requested, including statements of
permits and certificates issued and orders promulgated.
   (F)   The Building Inspector may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of
other officials of the municipality.
   (G)   The Building Inspector in the discharge of his official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   (H)   The Building Inspector or any employee charged with the enforcement of
the Building Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the
discharge of his duties, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally and is
relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act or omission
performed by him in the enforcement of any provisions of the Building Code, and
shall be defended by the City Attorney until final termination of the
proceedings.
('88 Code, § 150.11) (Ord. 1977-16, passed - -77; Am. Ord. 2005-05, passed 4-
18-05)
§ 150.12 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits required by this chapter shall be as established in Exhibit
C to Ord. 2005-05, passed 4-18-05, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Such permit fees are hereby adopted and shall become part of this section.
(‘88 Code, § 150.12) (Am. Ord. 1989-3, passed 2-27-89; Am. Ord. 2005-05, passed
4-18-05)
§ 150.13 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to all requirements for occupancy permits as contained in the
Building Code, and other applicable codes, the Building Inspector or any
individual or entity authorized by the city to issue occupancy permits may, as
a condition precedent to the issuance of the permit, also require of the person
applying for the permit, that appropriate tests for sewer line location be
conducted, that a plan showing the exact location of sewer lines be submitted,
and, as to dwellings to be occupied by two or more families or containing two
or more housekeeping units, a sworn or unsworn statement or affidavit may be
required stating the number of individuals or families that will occupy the
premises or housekeeping units.
(‘88 Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 1982-12, passed 6-7-82; Am. Ord. 1990-22, passed 1-
7-91; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
§ 150.14 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON AERIALS, TOWERS AND ANTENNAS.
   (A)   No aerial, transmission tower, receiving tower, antenna, monitor or
similar device for the reception or transmission of radio or television signals
or electrical or electronic emissions shall be erected or permitted within the
city to a height in excess of 25 feet from the highest point of the building to
which same is attached.
   (B)   If the device is not attached to any building, but stands freely of
itself or on a supporting tower or pole or other standard, it may not exceed a
height of 50 feet from the ground level at the base thereof.
('88 Code, § 150.14) (Ord. 1964-6, passed 3-16-64)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.15 TRACKING OF FOREIGN MATTER FROM CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Whenever construction, demolition, excavation, trenching or grading by
any person creates a condition where mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter may be washed upon any street, alley or other public place, or
tracked upon the same by vehicles, that person shall take the precautionary
measures necessary to prevent mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign
matter from being washed or tracked upon the street, alley or other public
place.
   (B)   Any material violation of this section is declared to be an unsafe and
dangerous practice, for which the Building Inspector may issue a stop-work
order. Action by the Building Inspector shall be in addition to any other
remedies, civil or criminal, which may be available.
('88 Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-7-86)
Penalty, see § 150.99
Cross-reference:
   Material on street or sidewalk, see §
93.37
   Tracking foreign matter on streets, see §
130.16
§ 150.16 REMOVAL OF FOREIGN MATTER BY CITY; LIEN.
   (A)   The terms “person” or “persons responsible”, as used in this section
shall mean the driver of the vehicle which deposited or tracked the mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter on the streets, alleys or other
public places; or the driver's employer; or the owner of the real property or
prime contractor in charge of the site from which the mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter originated or to which the offending
vehicle was proceeding.
   (B)   Where mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter have been
washed from, or tracked by vehicles going to or from the site of any
construction, demolition, excavation, filling, trenching or grading, onto any
street, alley or other public place, the City Administrative Officer is
authorized to cause mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter to
be removed and to charge the cost of removal and cleaning, including costs of
equipment used and man hours expended, to the person or persons responsible.
The cost of removal and cleaning shall be collected by civil suit.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien upon the entire property from which the
mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter originated and to which
the offending vehicle was proceeding to secure the costs of removing same and
cleaning the street, alley or other public place pursuant to this section, and
further to secure the expenses incurred by the city in the collection of the
aforesaid costs. The lien may be enforced by an action for the foreclosure
thereof.
('88 Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-7-86; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
18-05)
ADDITIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE PROVISIONS
§ 150.25 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The city hereby designates the Kentucky State Building and Housing
Department as an examining and appeal board in order to administer the
Electrical Code adopted in §150.01. The Kentucky State Building and Housing
Department may issue and revoke licenses; hear and settle disputes of code
questions and how it shall apply in the affected area; conduct and make
regulations for conducting examinations of applicants, govern the method and
time of making applications for examinations and the time within which
applicant shall be examined after application has been filed;provide for the
means of payment for permits andcosts of administration; and adopt other
reasonable regulations to administer the Electrical Code.
(‘88 Code, § 150.25) (Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
§ 150.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   All electrical contractors and electricians operating and doing
business within the city shall first secure from the Kentucky State Building
and Housing Department a license and pay the fees therefor to the Kentucky
State Building and Housing Department as may from time to time be prescribed by
it.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of the license and to determine the
qualifications and abilities of applicant, the Kentucky State Building and
Housing Department shall conduct examinations in writing, at the times as it
may determine upon receipt of a written request for an examination accompanied
by applicable fees. However, any electrical contractor or journeyman
electrician who has more than five years full-time actual experience as an
electrical contractor or journeyman electrician, shall be exempt from
examination. In all other cases, the Kentucky State Building and Housing
Department shall issue licenses to applicants who have satisfactorily passed
examination, as hereinbefore set out and have otherwise established their
abilities to perform electrical work in accordance with the regulations as
established by the Kentucky State Building and Housing Department.
      (3)   No written examination shall be required of an applicant for
renewal of a license who applies during the effective period of an existing
license. Nonresident electrical contractors and electricians shall be governed
by the same regulations as resident electrical contractors and electricians.
      (4)   Electrician applicants of each classification may work on a
temporary permit from the Kentucky State Building and Housing Department until
the next scheduled period.
   (B)   Apprentice electricians are expressly excluded from the licensing and
examination requirements of this section.
   (C)   Before any permit is issued pursuant to law within the effective area
of this chapter for the alteration, construction or repair of electrical
wiring, and before approval of any inspection required within the effective
area of this chapter is issued by any inspection agency, the permit or approval
certificate shall bear the license number assigned as provided in this section,
to the electrical contractor performing the work.
(‘88 Code, §150.26) (Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.27 RECIPROCAL ENFORCEMENT.
   There is established an agreement of reciprocity between this city and any
other city or county in which there exists a resolution basically containing
the provisions of this Electrical Code and upon application made by the city or
county to the Kentucky State Building and Housing Department, licenses granted
under a resolution shall be recognized as fulfilling the requirements of that
Code.
(‘88 Code, § 150.27) (Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
§ 150.28 EXEMPTIONS.
   This Electrical Code shall not apply to rural electric cooperatives, factory
maintenance personnel or any employees of the utility companies, railroads or
municipalities in pursuit of their respective employer's business.
('88 Code, § 150.28)
ADDITIONAL STANDARDS OF SAFETY
§ 150.40 APPLICATION TO SINGLE- FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The standards of safety referred to in § 150.01 are hereby made applicable
to and extended to cover single-family dwellings within the city.
('88 Code, § 150.40)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.41 ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   The Standard of Safety enacted in §
150.01, shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department, who is hereby
designated as the Local Fire Marshal and the Local Fire Official referred to in
KRS Chapter 227 and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
(‘88 Code, § 150.41) (Am. Ord. 1995-14, passed 11-6-95; Am. Ord. 2022-07,
passed 5-2-22)
§ 150.42 POWERS OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to enlarge or extend
the rights, powers, and privileges of the State Fire Marshall within the city,
except that the State Fire Marshall may investigate the cause, origin and
circumstances of fires for the proper detecting and suppressing of arson and
minimizing or preventing fire loss.
('88 Code, § 150.42)
ADDITIONAL PLUMBING CODE PROVISIONS
§ 150.50 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall construct, install or alter any plumbing, sewerage or
drainage system within the city without first having procured a building permit
from the Building Inspector.
   (B)   All applications for building permits pursuant to division (A) above
shall be accompanied by a plan of the proposed plumbing installation. No
building permit shall be issued under this chapter until plans of the plumbing
to be performed have been submitted to and approved by the Building Inspector.
('88 Code, § 150.50)
Penalty, see § 150.99
ADDITIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE PROVISIONS
§ 150.60 AMENDMENTS TO PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Section 101.1 on page thereof 1, is hereby amended as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code
of the City of Fort Mitchell, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 103, on pages 1 and 2 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Section 106, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (D)   Section 107, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (E)   Section 111, on page 5 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (F)   Section 292, on pages 7 and 8 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (G)   Section 304.14, on page 10 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (H)   Section 602.3, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (I)   Section 602.4, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05, and incorporated
herein by reference.
(‘88 Code, §150.60) (Ord. 1983-14, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-3-
97; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-18-05)
§ 150.61 EFFECT OF ADOPTION OF CODE.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the International Property Maintenance Code
adopted in §150.02 shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending
in any court, or any right acquired, liability incurred or any cause or causes
of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed.
(‘88 Code, 150.61) (Ord. 1983-14, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
18-05)
§ 150.62 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CODE.
   The Building Inspector, appointed by the city, or any other person or entity
authorized by the city, shall serve as Code Official for purposes of the
Property Maintenance Code with all the privileges, rights, duties, and
obligations herein imposed upon the Code Official referred to in that Code, and
wherever in that Code reference is made to the Code Official it shall mean and
refer to the Building Inspector.
(‘88 Code, §150.62) (Ord. 1983-14, passed 12-5-83; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
18-05)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform Sate
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. (KRS 198B.990 (1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both, for
each offense. (KRS 227.990 (1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, for
each offense. (KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500. ('88 Code, § 150.99)
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (D)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (E)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (F)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 151: SMOKE DETECTORS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Smoke detectors required
   
151.03   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
151.04   Providing, installing and maintaining smoke detectors
   
151.05   Supplemental standards
   
151.06   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms or area designated or used for sleeping purposes either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include rooming
houses, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories and apartment buildings.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms located within a building or structure,
including mobile homes, and forming a single house-keeping unit with facilities
which are used or designed to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall
have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgagee in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate or
duly-authorized agent of the OWNER. Any person thus representing the actual
OWNER shall be bound to comply with the owner's obligations under this chapter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
('88 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85)
§ 151.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to those exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, smoke detectors shall be required in all dwellings privately owned or
rented for occupancy. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new
or existing occupied dwelling unit to install smoke detectors in each dwelling
unit as provided in this chapter. The smoke detectors shall be capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable
audible (or visual for a deaf or hearing-impaired person) alarm.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to any and all dwellings or dwelling units,
whether new or existing, which are not otherwise required to have smoke
detectors located therein under the provisions of the currently adopted
Kentucky Building Code or the currently adopted Standards of Safety.
('88 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.03 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this chapter, only ionization or photo-
electric type smoke detectors approved by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed. As an alternative to self-contained smoke
detectors, under certain limited conditions an approved fire detection system
or a combination thereof may be installed. Each and every alternative system
must be individually approved in written form by the Fire Chief, Assistant
Chief, or designee of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Smoke detectors in new residential dwellings shall be wired directly
(hard wired) to the building's power supply. In existing buildings, it is
preferred that smoke detectors be wired directly to the power supply; however,
the detectors may be powered by a self-monitored battery or operated by an
electrical plug-in outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device,
provided that the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main
power supply.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable National
Fire Protection Act, N.F.P.A., standards. Detectors may be ceiling or wall
mounted, provided, that if wall mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not
closer than six inches, of the ceiling.
   (D)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area. A “sleeping area” is defined as the area or areas of the
dwelling unit in which the bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) are located. Where
bedrooms or rooms ordinarily used for sleeping are separated by other use areas
(such as kitchens or living rooms, but not bathrooms or closets), they shall be
considered as separate sleeping areas for the purposes of this chapter. In a
dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room separated from the
other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be located in the
corridor within the unit or interior area giving access to the rooms used for
sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated or where a single smoke
detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there shall be a smoke
detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (E)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (F)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
   (G)   At least one detector shall be installed in or near each stairway
leading up to an occupied area in such a manner as to assure that rising smoke
is not obstructed in reaching the detector and the detector intercepts rising
smoke before it reaches the occupied area.
(‘88 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-
2-22)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.04 PROVIDING, INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required smoke detectors and for
providing maintenance and testing in an owner-occupied residence; or for
providing the manufacturer's maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant
in the case of rental property.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, which are
located in common areas or detectors in rooming units where the tenant usually
has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels or rooming or tourist homes).
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, which are within
his exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall be
responsible for notifying the owner when a detector becomes inoperable,
whereafter the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace the detector in
operable condition. In the battery operated type of detectors, battery
replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and, if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition.
   (E)   At every change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or
incidental to a sale, lease or sublease of the unit, it shall be the duty of
the grantor thereof (the seller, lessor or sublessor, as the case may be) to
provide, before occupancy, to the new occupant that all smoke detectors as
required by this section or other applicable laws are installed and in proper
working condition. Failure to comply with this division shall be punishable as
set forth herein, provided however, that this division shall not be construed
to violate or render void any contract, lease or sublease subject hereto.
   (F)   No smoke detector or alternative system shall be directly connected
(permanently wired) to the electrical system of a structure without the proper
electrical certification.
('88 Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.05 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This section is intended to be used with, and supplemented by, the
applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Standards 72-E and 74
(current edition) which are hereby incorporated herein; however, if there is
any conflict between this chapter and those supplemental standards, this
chapter and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall prevail.
All amendments to or changes in the National Fire Protection Standards 72-E and
74 are adopted and made a part hereof without further reference.
('88 Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85)
§ 151.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or designee shall be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Building Department shall assist the Fire Prevention Bureau by
making referrals to the Bureau as part of its regular inspection and
enforcement of all city housing, building, and safety codes. No building
permits for remodeling or repair of a dwelling unit shall be issued for any
dwelling unit not properly equipped with smoke detectors. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any new dwelling or dwelling unit not properly
equipped with smoke detectors. Detectors must be operable for the final
inspection of the Building Inspector or Fire Prevention Bureau Inspector.
Instruction and maintenance booklets must be provided to the owner by the
manufacturer in accordance with National Fire Protection Standard 74, and the
documentation shall be displayed to the Building Inspector during the final
inspection.
(‘88 Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-
2-22)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for noncompliance with this chapter is a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $500 for each violation. If violations exist in a
dwelling or rooming unit as specified in § 151.01, each unit shall be deemed
and considered a separate violation.
   (B)   The penalty for noncompliance with this chapter is automatically
waived if the dwelling or dwelling unit is brought into compliance with this
chapter within 30 days of the original violation. The property owner must
request an inspection from the Fire Prevention Bureau to verify compliance and
have the waiver provision applied.
('88 Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-16-85)
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (D)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (E)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (F)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 152: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Fence required around swimming pool
   
152.03   Owner or resident responsible for fence
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure or artificial body of water located on private
or public property, constructed or maintained for the purpose of swimming or
wading by adults or children and containing water in a depth of more than two
feet.
('88 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 1967-15, passed 7-17-67)
§ 152.02 FENCE REQUIRED AROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   Every swimming pool, as defined in § 152.01, shall be completely surrounded
by a fence or wall not less than four feet in height, which shall be so
constructed as not to have openings, holes or gaps larger than four inches in
any dimension except for doors and gates. If a picket fence is erected or
maintained, the horizontal dimension shall not exceed four inches. A dwelling
house or accessory building may be used as part of the enclosure. All gates or
doors opening through the enclosure shall be equipped with a self-closing and
self-latching device for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times
when not in actual use, except that the door of any dwelling which forms a part
of the enclosure need not be so equipped. The requirements of this chapter
shall be applicable to all new swimming pools hereafter constructed and shall
apply to all existing pools which have a minimum depth of two feet of water.
('88 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 1967-15, passed 7-17-67)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03 OWNER OR RESIDENT RESPONSIBLE FOR FENCE.
   No person in possession of land within the city, either as owner, purchaser,
lessee, tenant or licensee, upon which is situated a swimming pool having a
minimum depth of two feet, shall fail to provide and maintain the fence or wall
as required in § 152.02.
('88 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 1967-15, passed 7-17-67)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. ('88 Code, § 152.99)
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to Chapter 41 and KRS 65.8808, and such classification is intended,
and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections, and nothing contained
herein or in Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any
other means authorized by law.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $600 for the second offense, and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of the ordinance violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of the ordinance are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense upon issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 8-17-99)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Chapter 41
CHAPTER 153: WITHHOLDING LICENSES; PERMITS PENDING RESOLUTION OF PROCEEDINGS
INVOLVING REAL ESTATE
Section
   
153.01   Withholding of licenses, permits and the like
§ 153.01 WITHHOLDING OF LICENSES, PERMITS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever there is pending any application, petition or
proceeding before any court of the United States or of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, before any legislative body, agency or instrumentality thereof or
before any municipal or governmental agency, board, commission or other public
body of the United States or of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any of its
political subdivisions, including City Council, the official of the city
(including the City Treasurer, City Clerk, License Inspector, Collector of Tax,
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, Chief of the Fire Department,
Building Inspector, Building and Sewer Inspector, Zoning Administrator, Chief
of Police and any other official charged with the responsibility of issuing or
withholding permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals) shall withhold
the granting or denial of the permit, license, certificate or other approval to
await the final determination and/or adjudication of the application, petition
or proceeding.
      (2)   The permit shall be withheld if, in the determination of the
official, the petition, application or proceeding may change, alter, limit,
prohibit or otherwise substantially affect the development, construction,
improvement or use of any real estate within the city to which the permit,
license, certificate or other approval is applicable.
   (B)   In the event that an application, petition or proceeding is pending
before a body designated above, which body is charged only with the
responsibility of making recommendations with reference to the development,
construction, improvement or use of the real estate, then that official shall
withhold the granting or denying of the permit, license, certificate or other
approval to await determination and/or adjudication by the body charged with
the responsibility of making a final determination and/or adjudication of the
matter.
(‘88 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 1986-24, passed 12-30-86)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 154.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Fort Mitchell Zoning Ordinance, being Ordinance 1982-20, passed
11-15-82, and all subsequent legislation amendatory thereto, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated into this Code of Ordinances as if set out in its
entirety.
   (B)   Copies of the legislation adopted herein are available for public
inspection during normal business hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(‘88 Code, § 154.01) (Am. Ord. 2005-05, passed 4-18-05; Am. Ord. 2005-12,
passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 11-7-05; Am. Ord. 2006-03, passed 3-20-
06; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord. 2008-04, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord.
2008-11, passed 10-20-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 1-4-10; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord. 2014-04, passed 5-5-14; Am. Ord. 2014-13, passed 7-21-
14; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 2014-20, passed 12-1-14; Am.
Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-4-15; Am. Ord. 2016-
08, passed 7-18-16; Am. Ord. 2017-18, passed 11-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed
2-5-18; Am. Ord. 2017-07, passed 5-5-17; Am. Ord. 2017-20, passed 1-9-18; Am.
Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-5-18; Am. Ord. 2018-10, passed 7-16-18; Am. Ord. 2019-
01, passed 4-15-19; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed
12-2-19; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-7-22; Am. Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-20-23; Am.
Ord. 2023-18, passed 1-8-24)
Cross-reference:
   Display of temporary, non-residential signs regulated, see § 116.01
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Applicable lands
   
155.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
155.08   Establishment of development permit
   
155.09   Compliance
   
155.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.11   Interpretation
   
155.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.13   Enforcement; violation; notice and penalties
Administration
   
155.20   Designation of Local Administrator
   
155.21   Establishment of development permits
   
155.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.30   General construction standards
   
155.31   Specific standards
   
155.32   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
155.33   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
155.34   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.35   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter A
   
155.36   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
155.45   Nature of variances
   
155.46   Designation of variance and Appeal Board; duties of Board
   
155.47   Appeals and variance procedures
   
155.48   Conditions for variances
   
155.49   Variance notification
   
155.50   Historic structures
   
155.51   No impact certification within the floodway
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS Chapters 82 and
83A delegated to local government units the authority to adopt regulations to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council hereby adopts the following floodplain management
ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve these uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. Accessory structures should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (to an existing structure). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 and AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. This
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B and X ZONES (shaded). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C and X (unshaded) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. “Existing construction” may also be referred
to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOOD WATER:
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAV MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
155.45 through
155.48 of this chapter, the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a standard flood insurance policy under
the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish, or remove the building. ICC coverage is
available on residential and non-residential buildings (this category includes
public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries, and municipal
buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250. Plans for dams, levees, and the like to be
approved and permit issued by Cabinet (Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for this
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and the plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of the size or type as to require approval
by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that the filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for the work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where the obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION-FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term manufactured home does not include a
"recreational vehicle" (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.  The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).  As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM'S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city's floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).  As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’s and digitally referenced FIRM’s
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-Year Flood) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31,1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a 10-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more flood
losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than the
current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss. For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur when
the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or
improvement to a building, taking place during a one-year period in which the
cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current
market value of the building. For the purposes of this definition, an
improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure; or
      (3)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.06 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kenton County,
with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS), other supporting data
and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and for those land
areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping
is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which
are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain Administrator and are
enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing land use management
regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on
file and available for review by the public during regular business hours at
the office of the City Clerk, in the Fort Mitchell Municipal Building, Dixie
Highway and Highland Avenue, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky 41017.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
155.21 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the City Council of the city, any officer
or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.13 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION; NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, this development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $20 nor more than $500, and in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each violation
shall constitute a separate offense and each day the violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Floodplain Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor of the city, or the Mayor's
designee to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
155.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
155.31(B) and §
155.33(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
155.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
155.30 through
155.36. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
155.31(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.21(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
155.31(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
155.21(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
155.31(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
155.34(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
155.31(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
155.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
155.46(B)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
155.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
155.30 through
155.36;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
155.31(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes the building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the administrator may enter the
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If the structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If the building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the request
entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any building,
structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability.
         (a)   Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not
thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties.
         (b)   Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
155.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than <2> feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of §
155.31(C).
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated <2> feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, states
as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit: The
applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and
thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA
maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
(0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which
represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated <2> feet above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. The certification and verification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
155.31(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation <2> feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than <2> feet above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. The certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
155.21(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
155.31(D).
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation <2> feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of the enclosed areas shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than <2> feet above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either:
         (b)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than <2> feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (c)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (5)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
155.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
155.31(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
155.30 through
155.36.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
155.07.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.33 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate, therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   In zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation above or, in zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
155.31(B).
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.34 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided;
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.35 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER A.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level <2> feet above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking;
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.36 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.45 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the chapter are
based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece
of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a
parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with
the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.46 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD; DUTIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish an Appeal Board consisting of the
members of the City Council.
   (B)   Duties of variance and appeals board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.47 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon the applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the existing individual owner and future
owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent facility;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.48 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. MINIMUM
NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. In the
instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be made that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not destroy the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
155.05 under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
155.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
155.47 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.49 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
over the signature of a community official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
   (B)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Kenton County, Kentucky Recorder and shall
be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.50 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition, §
155.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
§ 155.51 NO IMPACT CERTIFICATION WITHIN THE FLOODWAY.
   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped or designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 11-15-10)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS
   
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
   
V.   MERGERS
   
VI.   STREET IMPROVEMENTS
   
VII.   STREET CLOSINGS
   
VIII.   URBAN REDEVELOPMENT
   
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1989-25  9-18-       Annexing territory along the southwest side of Horsebranch
                     Road and the north side of I-275
1992-11  11-2-92     Annexing territory beginning at a point in the centerline
                     of Pleasant Run Pike
1996-5   5-6-96      Annexing unincorporated territory consisting of
                     approximately 7.8 acres along Orphanage Road
1998-09  8-3-98      Proposing the annexation of Crescent Park into the city
1999-04  6-21-99     Accepting the annexation of Crescent Park into the city
 
TABLE II: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amending the Kenton County Comprehensive Plan as it
                     applies to an area on the west side of Buttermilk Pike,
1982-19  11-15-82    south of Chelsea Lane, changing the plan from single/
                     multi-family residential at 14.1-20.0 dwelling units per
                     net acre to commercial-special function concentration,
                     highway interchange; declaring an emergency to exist
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1997- 8-13-  Granting a 12-year, non- exclusive franchise for cable television
12    97     service to TKR Cable of Northern Kentucky, Inc.
             Granting a 12-year, non- exclusive franchise to Cincinnati Bell
2009- 3-2-09 extended territories for the purpose of constructing, installing and
01           maintaining, repairing, replacing, removing and/or restoring a cable
             television system
             Creating and establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the placement
2019- 4-15-  of facilities for the transmission, distribution and sale of
02    19     electrical energy withing the public right-of-way of the city for a
             15-year duration
2019- 4-15-  Creating and establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the placement
03    19     of facilities for the transmission, distribution and sale of natural
             gas within the public right-of-way of the city for a 15-year duration
2019- 8-26-  Establishing a franchise fee of 3% of gross receipts from a
10    19     franchisee’s sale of electricity and natural gas inside the city’s
             corporate limits
             Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive franchise to MCI
             Metro Access Transmission Services Corp. d/b/a Verizon Access
             Transmission services fro a term of ten years with option to renew for
2019- 9-16-  two additional five year terms for a telecommunications franchise
11    19     agreement and for the construction, placement, maintenance and
             operation of a telecommunications system and facilities for the
             transmission, delivery, provision and sale of telecommunications
             services
             Granting and issuing a competitive, non-exclusive franchise for a
             combined term of ten years to, and authorizing the execution of the
2021- 12-6-  franchise agreement with, Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC,
09    21     its permitted successors or assigns, providing for the construction,
             erection, installation, upgrade, maintenance, repair and operation of
             a cable television system for the provision of cable television
             services in the city
             Granting and issuing a competitive, nonexclusive franchise for a
             combined term of ten years to, and authorizing the execution of a
             franchise agreement with, Spectrum Mid-America, LLC, an affiliate of
2023- 8-14-  Charter Communications Inc., and its permitted successors and assigns,
10    23     said franchise providing for: the construction, erection,
             installation, upgrade, repair, maintenance, and operation of a cable
             television system for the provision of cable television services
             within the confines of the City of Fort Mitchell
            
 
TABLE IV: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1986- 7-22-  Authorizing the execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement” for a pooled
13    86     lease program
             Approving a joint and cooperative program for self- insurance, insurance and the
             investment of public funds among various cities, urban-county governments and
1987- 5-18-  other public agencies within the Commonwealth of Kentucky; authorizing the
8     87     execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to Establish the Kentucky
             Municipal Risk Management Association” (the “Interlocal Agreement”) under which
             the program will be organized and financed; and authorizing the issuance of
             revenue bonds under the terms and conditions set forth in the interlocal agreement
             Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
1989- 7-17-  Association (KMRMA) General Insurance Trust (a pooled self-insurance and insurance
18    89     purchase program); approving the purchase by the city through the KMRMA General
             Insurance Trust of such liability and property damage insurance coverage; and
             authorizing a binding trust participation agreement between the city and the KMRMA
1990- 9-10-  Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus
12    90
1990- - -90  Authorizing an interlocal agreement regarding electrical contractors, electricians
19           and electrical inspectors
—   - -92  Approving a county interlocal agreement for the coordination and consolidation of
             the collection of municipal occupational taxes and license fees
1995- 5-1-95 Approving an interlocal agreement for police protection by and between the city
03           and Crescent Park, Kentucky
1995- 9-18-  Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement creating the Telecommunications
13    95     Board of Northern Kentucky
1996- 8-31-  Amending the interlocal cooperation agreement creating the Telecommunications
15    96     Board of Northern Kentucky; extending participation time limits
1997- 8-13-  Amending the interlocal cooperation agreement creating the Telecommunications
13    97     Board of Northern Kentucky; expanding the purpose and authorities of the board
2005- 4-18-  Approving the interlocal agreement and services for unified “onestop shop” codes
05    05     administration and service level/cost sharing between the city and the Northern
             Kentucky Area Planning Commission
             Approving an interlocal agreement between the County Sheriff and the cities of
2008- 3-3-08 Crescent Springs, Edgewood, Erlanger, Ft. Mitchell, Ft. Wright, Independence,
01           Ludlow, Park Hills, Taylor Mill and Villa Hills regarding the Northern Kentucky
             Emergency Response Unit
2008- 3-3-08 Approving an interlocal agreement between Ft. Mitchell and Ft. Wright regarding
02           the improvements to Amsterdam Road
             Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance, insurance and the
             investment of public funds among various cities, urban-county governments and
2013-        other public agencies within the Commonwealth of Kentucky; authorizing the
20    8-5-13 execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to Establish the Kentucky
             League of Cities Insurance Services Association”; approving the articles of
             association and bylaws of the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance Services
             Association (KLCIS)
             Approving and authorizing the execution and delivery of a second supplemental
2015- 8-17-  trust indenture and continuing covenant agreement in connection with heretofore
11    15     issued Kentucky League of Cities Funding Trust Lease Program Revenue Bonds,
             Variable Rate 2002, Series A
2016-        Approving an interlocal agreement between the City of Fort Mitchell, other local
01    3-7-16 cities and the County of Kenton, and the Sanitation District No. 1 of Northern
             Kentucky
            
 
TABLE V: MERGERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Merger of former cities of Fort Mitchell and South Fort
1967-1   1-16-67     Mitchell, to create a new municipal corporation known
                     hereafter as the City of Fort Mitchell
 
TABLE VI: STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The extension of Grandview Drive from the end of the
                     existing concrete pavement in front of Nordman property in
                     a northwesterly direction to a point 308 feet north of the
1983-3   4-18-83     southerly line of the city park and extending the water
                     main from its terminus in front of the Drees Office
                     Building on Grandview Drive eastwardly to the proposed
                     street
                     The installation of sidewalks on the northerly most side
1993-6   5-3-93      of Highland Avenue extending from and including House
                     Number 208 Highland Avenue to Longmeadow Lane, including a
                     retaining wall
                     The installation of sidewalks on the southerly most side
1993-7   5-3-93      of Burdsall Avenue extending from the easterly line of
                     House Number 71 Burdsall Avenue to Dixie Highway
                     The installation of 1,300 lineal feet of eight-inch sewer
1994-3   5-16-94     line and 1,000 lineal feet of six-inch lateral line
                     extending from House Number 242 to House Number 312
                     Beechwood Road
                     The installation of approximately 1,300 lineal feet of
                     four-foot sidewalk and 246 square yards of driveway apron
1996-02  3-18-96     replacement, extending from the existing walk at House
                     Number 114 Pleasant Ridge to the intersection at Beechwood
                     Road
                     The installation of approximately 1,243 lineal feet of
1998-02  5-4-98      four-foot sidewalk, extending from House Number 120
                     Burdsall Avenue to House Number 74 Burdsall Avenue
                     The installation of approximately 1,185 lineal feet of
1998-4   6-15-98     four-foot sidewalk, extending along the northerly side of
                     Superior Drive from Dixie Highway to House Number 30
                     Superior Drive at the intersection of Oxford Avenue
                     The installation of approximately 1,613 linear feet of
                     four-foot sidewalk, extending along the northerly side of
2000-5   5-1-00      Thompson Avenue extending near the intersection of
                     Thompson Avenue and Gettysburg Drive just past the new
                     improvements near 56 Thompson Avenue
                     The installation of a four-foot sidewalk, extending along
2004-14  8-27-04     the western side of Thompson Avenue, from approximately 56
                     Thompson Avenue to Brice Avenue
 
TABLE VII: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1997-06  6-16-97     Closing and permanently discontinuing use of a portion of
                     Winding Way as a public thoroughfare
1998-08  8-3-98      Closing and permanently discontinuing use of East Maple
                     Avenue as a public thoroughfare
2001-01  4-2-01      Closing a public way in Sunnymede Subdivision
2004-16  11-15-04    Closing a portion of certain public ways on Crescent Road
                     and West Orchard Road
 
TABLE VIII: URBAN REDEVELOPMENT
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1983- 9-12-  Designating certain property, identified as “PO”, as a downtown business
12    83     district for the purpose of issuing industrial revenue bonds
1984- 7-16-  Designating certain property located east of Interstate Highway 75 at the
9     84     Buttermilk Pike Interchange and designated PO, LHS and NC as a downtown
             business district for the purpose of issuing industrial revenue bonds
             Designating certain property located east of Interstate Highway 75 at the
1986- 5-28-  Buttermilk Pike Interchange and designated LHS, LHS(C-PUD) and NC as a
7     86     downtown business district for the purpose of issuing industrial revenue
             bonds
             Establishing a development area for economic development purposes within the
             city to be known as the Buttermilk Pike/Royal Drive Development Area;
             approving a local participation agreement among the city, the County of
             Kenton, Kentucky and Planning and Development Services of Kenton County
2014- 11-10- (PDS), which was formerly known as the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
16    14     Commission; establishing a special fund for payment of project costs and
             redevelopment assistance; designating the Fort Mitchell Economic Development
             Authority, Inc. as the agency responsible for oversight, administration and
             implementation of the development areal authorizing the Mayor and other
             officials to take such other appropriate actions as are necessary or required
             in connection with the establishment of the Development Area
             Amending the Buttermilk Pike/Royal Drive Development Area (The “Development
             Area”), as adopted by Ord. 2014-16, amending the boundaries of the
2015- 8-17-  Development Area, adopting an addendum for the development plan for the
12    15     Development Area, amending the local participation agreement for the
             Development Area, and authorizing the execution and delivery of any other
             documents
2017- 3-20-  Amending Ord. 2014-16 authorizing the mayor to amend the activation date for
05    17     the local participation agreement for the Buttermilk Pike/Royal Drive
             development area.
            
 
TABLE IX: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1984- 12-3-  Reclassifying a tract of land located on Buttermilk Pike from R-3a
19    84     (Residential Three a) and PO (Professional Office Building) to LHS (Limited
             Highway Services)
1985- 10-30- Reclassifying two tracts of land located on Buttermilk Pike, from LHS
19    85     (Limited Highway Service) to LHS (C-PUD) Overlay (Limited Highway Service
             Commercial-Planned Unit Development Overlay)
1985- 10-30- Reclassifying a tract of land located on Buttermilk Pike, from R-1C
20    85     (Residential One C) to LHS (C-PUD) Overlay (Limited Highway Service
             Commercial-Planned Unit Development Overlay)
             Reclassifying a tract of land containing approximately 41.5 acres located
1987- 3-2-87 approximately 1,000 feet north and 1,500 feet east of the intersection of
3            Pleasant Run Pike and Grandview Drive, from R-2 (Two-family and Multi-family
             Residential) to PO (Professional Office)
             Reclassifying a tract of land containing approximately 15 acres located east
1988- 10-17- of Pleasant Run Pike and north of the Southern Railroad from R-1C (Single
15    88     Family Residential) to R-1E/RCD (Higher Density Single Family Residential
             with a Residential Cluster Overlay)
             Reclassifying a tract of land containing approximately 5.7 acres located on
1989- 1-23-  the northwest corner of the intersection of Beechwood Road and Grandview
1     89     Drive (extended), now Crisler Avenue, from PO (Professional Office Building)
             to NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
             Reclassifying a tract of land containing approximately 10.6 acres located at
1990- 12-3-  the northwest corner of the intersection of Beechwood Road and Grandview
16    90     Drive from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and PO (Professional Office) to MLU
             (Mixed Land Use)
             Reclassifying an approximate 20-acre area located north of and adjacent to
1992- 5-4-92 the right-of-way of Interstate 75, said area located east of Grandview Drive
3            and west of Dixie Highway, from R-2 (Two- and Multi-Family Residential) to
             R-1C (Detached single-Family Residential)
1992-        Reclassifying an approximate 1.8-acre area located along the northwest side
5     6-1-92 of Grace Avenue, approximately 300 feet southeast of Royal Drive, from LHS
             (Limited Highway Service Zone) to R-3A (Two- and Multi-Family)
             Reclassifying an approximate 1.5-acre area located along the northeast side
1993- 3-15-  of Bromley-Crescent Springs Road, approximately 400 feet northwest of
2     93     Edenberry Drive, from R-1A (Single-Family Residential Zone) to R-1C (Single-
             Family Residential)
1993- 3-15-  Reclassifying an approximate 9.1-acre area located at the intersection of
3     93     Longmeadow Lane with Stonewall Trail from R-1C (Single Family Residential)
             to R-1C (Single-Family Residential)
1993- 3-15-  Reclassifying an approximate 1.6-acre area located along the north side of
4     93     Grandview Drive, between Beechwood Road and Buttermilk Pike, from PO
             (Professional Office) to MLU (Mixed Land Use)
             Reclassifying an approximate 20-acre area located north and adjacent to the
1994- 8-22-  right-of-way of I-75, east of Grandview Drive and west of Dixie Highway from
13    94     R-2 (Two- and Mutli-Family Residential) to R-1C (Detached Single-Family
             Residential)
1995-        Reclassifying a 2.8-acre area located at the northeast corner of the
2     4-3-95 intersection of Dixie Highway with St. Johns Road/Ridge Road from R-3A (Two-
             and Multi-Family Residential) to R-1C (Detached Single-Family Residential)
1996-        Reclassifying a one-acre area located 400 feet southwest of the terminus of
10    8-5-96 West Maple Avenue from LHS (Limited Highway Service) to R-1C (Detached
             Single-Family Residential)
             Reclassifying two parcels of land fronting on the southwest side of
1997- 7-7-97 Orphanage Road, between Stevie Ridge Road and Dixie Highway from R-3A (Two-
9            Family and Multi-Family Residential) to R-1F(P) (Single-Family Residential
             with a Phased Zoning Overlay)
1998- 6-15-  Reclassifying a parcel of .8-acre land located at the northeast quadrant of
03    98     Dixie Highway and I-75/I-71 from R-1F (Single-Family Residential) to PO
             (Professional Office)
1999- 5-3-99 Reclassifying a 12,700 square foot site located at 2073 Dixie Highway for R-
03           1F (Single-Family Residential) to PO (Professional Office)
2000- 8-15-  Reclassifying a 9.8-acre site located along Bill’s Lane from R-1C (Single-
11    00     Family Residential) to LHS (C-PUD - Limited Highway Service Zone with a
             Commercial Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone)
2006- 3-20-  Reclassifying an approximately 0.5 acre area located approximately 400 feet
02    06     west of Dixie Highway and approximately 500 feet south of interstate 71-75
             from SC (a shopping Center Zone) to R-1F (a Single-Family Residential Zone)
             Proposing a reclassification of an approximately 1.1 acre area located along
             the east side of Beechwood Road at its intersection with Royal Drive from R-
2008- 12-1-  1C (a detached single-family residential zone with a maximum density of
12    08     approximately 3.5 dwelling units per net acre) to R-3a (a two-and multi-
             family residential zone with a maximum density of 15.0 dwelling units per
             net acre)
             Reclassifying a parcel located on the southern side of West Maple Avenue
2013- 2-12-  (near its intersection with Dixie Highway), containing 0.2 acre of land,
05    13     from R-1F (detached single-family residential) to LHS (Limited Highway
             Service)
             Reclassifying a parcel located generally on the south side of Interstate 75
             and on the east side of Buttermilk Pike, containing approximately 28 acres
2013- 10-7-  of land, from R-3a (two-family and multi-family zone with a maximum density
24    13     of 15 dwelling units per net acre), LHS (Limited Highway Service Zone) and
             LHS (C-PUD) (Limited Highway Zone with a Commercial Planned Unit Development
             Overlay) to MBLU (Mixed Business Land Use Zone)
             Amending the Fort Mitchell Zoning Map changing an 0.62 acre area located
2014- 12-22- along the east side of Dixie Highway across from the intersection of Dixie
21    14     Highway and Fort Mitchell Avenue in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky from an R-1F (a
             Detached Single-Family Residential) Zone to a PO-1 (a Professional Office-
             One) Zone
             Amending the Fort Mitchell Zoning Map changing a portion of 405 Buttermilk
2018- 7-16-  Pike, an area 7,000 square feet located on the south side of Avon Drive,
09    18     between Buttermilk Pike to the east and Summit avenue tot he west
             approximately 150 feet west of Buttermilk Pike from R-1G (Residential One-G)
             Zone to LSC (Limited Service Commercial) Zone
             Amending the For Mitchell Zoning Map changing an area of approximately 11.7
             acres located on the east side of Grandview Drive, east of Beechwood Road
2019- 7-15-  and south the terminus of Grandview Drive, approximately 1,900 feet east of
07    19     Beechwood Road, located at 260 Grandview Drive from R-1C (a Single Family
             Zone) Zone and PO (Professional Office) Zone to a R-2 (Multi-family
             Residential) Zone
2024- 11-11- Amending the Fort Mitchell Zoning Map changing 221 Grandview Drive from BP
11    24     (Business Park) Zone to CC (Community Commercial) Zone
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1988 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
13A                     91.02
13B                     91.06 ,
                        42.11
15.409                  34.26
15.420                  92.16
15.520                  35.72 ,
                        36.04
Ch. 18A                 114.03
18A.225(2)              114.03
18A.228                 114.03
Ch. 31                  34.26
Ch. 39A - 39F           31.39
Ch. 61                  32.16
61.168                  34.26
61.169                  34.26
61.810                  37.18
61.823(2) to (4)        93.85
61.870                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882         31.31
                        34.27,
61.870 - 61.884         37.09,
                        37.22
61.872(4)               34.16
61.872(5)               34.17
61.872(6)               34.18
61.874(1)-(3)           34.22
61.874(3),(4)           34.23
61.874(5)               34.24
61.874(6)               34.25
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.26
61.878(1)               34.26
61.880                  34.19
61.880(1)               34.26
61.884                  34.21
65.003                  37.03
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.8801                 Ch. 92
                        41.01,
65.8801 - 65.8839       41.02,
                        41.14
65.8805                 92.16
                        50.99,
                        51.99,
                        70.99,
                        73.99,
                        90.99,
                        91.99,
                        92.99,
                        93.99,
                        94.99,
                        110.99,
65.8808                 111.99,
                        112.99,
                        113.99,
                        115.99,
                        118.99,
                        130.34,
                        130.99,
                        150.01,
                        150.99,
                        151.99,
                        152.99
65.8815(5)              41.04
65.8835                 41.12
66.660                  93.15
67.750 - 67.795         110.25
67.753                  110.27
67.753(2), (3)          110.27
67.753(4)               110.27
79.110                  150.25
Ch. 82                  155.01
82.082                  37.03,
                        110.01
82.600                  72.60
82.605                  72.99
82.610                  72.50
82.615                  72.53
82.625                  72.20,
                        72.21
82.630                  72.21
82.635                  72.21
82.700 - 82.725         Ch. 92
83.087                  31.40
Ch. 83A                 155.01
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)      31.16
83A.040(2)(c)           31.16
83A.040(2)(d)           31.16
83A.040(3)              31.16
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              32.02
83A.040(7)              31.16,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.16,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.045(2)(b)           31.15
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.17
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
                        31.34  -
83A.080                 31.37 ,
                        35.68 ,
                        37.04
83A.080(1),(2)          31.30
83A.080(2)              31.03
83A.085                 31.31
83A.087                 31.37
83A.090                 31.32
83A.130                 31.16
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02
83A.130(3)              31.16
83A.130(4)              31.16
83A.130(5)              32.15
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.16
83A.130(8)              31.16
83A.130(9)              31.16
83A.130(10)             31.16
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.16
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.080                 Ch. 114
92.280                  110.01
92.281                  110.01
95.019                  35.66 ,
                        35.70
95.830                  35.32
97.550                  35.10
97.550 - 97.600         35.10
97.560                  35.10
Ch. 103                 33.16
Ch. 118                 31.15
131.010(6)              114.04
131.190                 34.26
132.285                 39.01
Ch. 136                 39.04
Ch. 151                 155.05
151.250                 155.05,
                        155.06
Ch. 154                 34.26
174.100                 93.85
174.100(1)              93.86
174.100                 93.87
174.100(3)              93.88
174.100(4)              93.89
174.100(5)              93.90
178.290                 93.15
186.020                 72.21
186.041                 72.12
186.042                 72.12
186.500                 71.25
189.020                 71.27
189.040                 73.06
189.190(3),(4)          71.28
189.290                 71.25
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.390(2)              Ch. 74, Sch. I
189.394                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
189.450(5),(6)          72.03
189.456                 72.12
189.580                 71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e. 34.01
189.725                 72.08
189.930                 71.26
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99
198B.990(1)             150.99
218A.010 - 218A.1444    92.16
222.202                 92.16
Ch. 227                 31.37 ,
                        150.41
227.700                 91.01,
                        91.07
227.700 - 227.750       91.06
227.702                 91.01,
                        91.07
227.704                 91.01,
                        91.07
227.706                 91.01
227.708                 91.01
227.710                 91.02
227.715                 91.02,
                        91.03
227.715 (6) - (8)       91.03
227.720                 91.04
227.730                 91.05
227.750                 91.06
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              91.99
Ch. 237                 130.01
241.010                 111.01
241.030                 111.01
241.190                 31.38
243.015                 111.01
243.030 - 243.680       111.01
243.070                 111.20
243.230                 111.26
243.280                 111.26
243.390                 111.22
243.430                 111.24
243.440                 111.21
243.450                 111.24
243.480                 111.61
243.480 - 243.590       111.61
243.500                 111.61
243.620                 111.43
243.990(1)              111.99
243.990(2)              111.99
244.080                 111.45
244.083                 111.43
244.085                 111.45
244.290                 111.40
244.480                 111.40
244.990(1)              111.99
244.990(5)              111.99
244.990(5),(6)          111.99
257.100                 90.09
318.990                 150.99
Ch. 344 et seq.         42.11
344.200                 42.11
344.240                 42.11
344.360                 42.12
344.367                 42.12
344.370                 42.12
344.380                 42.12
344.680                 42.12
Ch. 350                 155.05
376.275                 72.08
403.763                 92.16
Ch. 424                 32.43,
                        33.18
436.600                 90.05
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(11)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
Ch. 503                 130.02
507.020                 92.16
507.030                 92.16
507.040                 92.16
507.050                 92.16
508.010 - 508.160       92.16
510.010 - 510.155       92.16
511.010 - 511.090       92.16
512.010 - 512.060       92.16
512.020 - 512.040       50.01
513.010 - 513.040       92.16
514.010 - 514.090       92.16
514.110                 92.16
515.010 - 515.030       92.16
515.010 - 515.030       92.16
525.055                 92.16
525.060                 92.16
525.070 - 525.080       92.16
525.100                 92.16
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03,
                        90.99
527.010 - 527.210       92.16
529.010 - 529.110       92.16
530.060 - 530.080       92.16
531.010 - 531.110       92.16
531.010                 111.46
531.300 - 531.370       92.16
532.090(1)              110.99 ,
                        118.99
534.040(2)(a)           118.99
534.050                 93.99
534.050(1)(b)           118.99
534.050(1)(c)           118.99
534.050(2)(a)           110.99
610.180                 130.99
610.200                 130.04
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1988 Code Section 2001 Code Section
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.20             31.15
31.21             31.16
31.35             31.30
31.36             31.31
31.38             31.32
31.39             31.33
31.42             31.34
31.44             31.38
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.20             32.15
32.21             32.16
32.22             32.17
32.23             32.18
33.01             33.01
33.10             33.02
33.25             33.15
33.26             33.16
33.27             33.17
33.28             33.18
33.29             33.19
33.30             33.20
34.01             34.01
34.05             34.15
34.06             34.16
34.07             34.17
34.08             34.18
34.09             34.19
34.10             34.20
34.11             34.21
34.12             34.26
34.13             34.27
35.01             35.01
35.20             35.20
35.21             35.21
35.22             35.22
35.23             35.23
35.25             35.25
35.26             35.26
35.27             35.27
35.28             35.28
35.30             35.30
35.31             35.31
35.32             35.32
35.33             35.33
35.55             35.10
35.56             35.10
35.57             35.10
35.70             35.65
35.71             35.67
35.72             35.68
35.73             35.69
35.74             35.71
35.75             35.72
35.76             35.70
35.77             35.66
35.90             35.85
35.91             35.86
35.92             35.87
35.93             35.88
35.94             35.89
35.95             35.90
36.15             36.02
37.01             38.01
38.01             39.01
38.02             39.02
38.03             39.03
39.01             40.01
39.02             40.02
39.03             40.03
39.04             40.04
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.16             50.15
50.30             50.30
50.31             50.31
50.32             50.32
50.45             50.45
50.46             50.46
50.99             50.99
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.03             51.03
51.04             51.04
51.05             51.05
51.20             51.20
51.21             51.21
51.22             51.22
51.23             51.23
51.99             51.99
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.0
70.04             70.04
70.05             70.05
70.15             70.15
70.16             70.16
70.17             70.17
70.18             70.18
70.19             70.19
70.20             70.20
70.21             70.21
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.15             71.15
71.16             71.16
71.25             71.25
71.26             71.26
71.27             71.27
71.28             71.28
71.40             71.40
71.41             71.41
71.42             71.42
71.43             71.43
71.44             71.44
71.45             71.45
71.46             71.46
71.47             71.47
71.48             71.48
71.49             71.49
71.50             71.50
71.51             71.50
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.11             72.11
72.12             72.12
72.25             72.50
72.26             72.51
72.27             72.52
72.99             72.99
73.99             73.99
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
91.04             93.13
91.05             93.14
91.06             93.15
91.20             93.35
91.21             93.36
91.22             93.37
91.23             93.38
91.30             93.50
91.31             93.51
91.32             93.52
91.40             93.65
91.41             93.66
91.42             93.67
91.43             93.68
91.44             93.69
91.45             93.70
91.46             93.71
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04,
                  130.18
92.05             92.05,
                  130.19
92.06             92.06
92.99             92.99
93.01             91.01
93.02             91.02
93.03             91.04
93.04             91.05
93.05             91.06
93.06             91.07
93.20             91.20
93.21             91.21
93.22             91.22
93.23             91.23
93.45             91.45
93.47             91.46
93.99             91.99
94.01             130.15
94.02             130.16
94.03             130.17
94.99             130.99
96.01             94.01
96.02             94.02
96.03             94.03
96.04             94.04
96.99             94.99
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.21            111.21
111.22            111.22
111.23            111.23
111.24            111.24
111.25            111.25
111.26            111.26
111.40            111.40
111.41            111.41
111.42            111.42
111.43            111.43
111.44            111.44
111.45            111.45
111.46            111.46
111.47            111.47
111.62            111.61
111.99            111.99
112.01            114.01
112.02            114.02
112.03            114.03
112.04            114.04
112.05            114.05
113.01            115.01
113.02            115.02
113.99            115.99
114.01            113.01
114.02            113.02
114.03            113.03
114.04            113.04
114.05            113.05
114.06            113.06
114.07            113.07
114.99            113.99
115.01            112.01
115.02            112.02
115.03            112.03
115.04            112.04
115.99            112.99
130.01            130.02
130.02            130.03,
                  130.99
130.03            130.04,
                  130.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.11            150.11
150.12            150.12
150.13            150.13
150.14            150.14
150.15            150.15
150.16            150.1
150.25            150.25
150.26            150.26
150.27            150.27
150.28            150.28
150.40            150.40
150.41            150.41
150.42            150.42
150.50            150.50
150.60            150.60
150.61            150.61
150.62            150.62
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.03            151.03
151.04            151.04
151.05            151.05
151.06            151.06
151.99            151.99
152.01            152.01
152.02            152.02
152.03            152.03
152.99            152.99
153.01            153.01
154.01            154.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1946-5   3-27-46     93.38
1946-12  12-4-46     35.68
1953-6   12-9-53     50.32
1954-3   2-24-54     50.32
1957-2   5-22-57     91.23
1960-1   2-17-60     93.50 -
                     93.52
1960-    6-15-60     50.01
1964-6   3-16-64     150.14
1965-10  10-18-65    72.50,
                     72.51
                     31.31,
1967-1   1-16-67     31.34,
                     T.S.O. V
1967-15  7-17-67     152.01 -
                     152.03
1967-21  12-18-67    130.02
1968-3   1-15-68     32.18
1968-4   1-15-68     31.34
                     51.01,
1968-7   4-1-68      51.21,
                     51.23
1969-4   2-17-69     130.99
1969-11  - -69       35.10
1972-1   1-3-72      35.65
1972-10  - -72       94.04
1974-26  10-21-74    50.15
1974-27  - -74       115.01
1974-28  12-16-74    35.72
1975-18  6-16-75     39.06
1976-5   3-15-76     39.03
1976-19  11-15-76    113.01
1977-16  - -77       150.11
1978-3   1-16-78     115.99
1978-7   3-20-78     72.52
1978-12  6-19-78     35.67
1979-4   2-5-79      33.01
1979-8   4-16-79     112.01
1980-6   5-19-80     32.18
1980-18  11-17-80    31.33
1981-20  1-5-81      31.32
1981-8   4-20-81     32.15
1982-12  6-7-82      150.13
1982-19  11-15-82    T.S.O. II
1983-1   3-7-83      72.52
1983-3   4-18-83     T.S.O. VI
1983-11  9-1-83      33.15 -
                     33.20
1983-10  9-12-83     51.03
1983-12  9-12-83     T.S.O. IX
1983-14  12-5-83     150.60 -
                     150.62
1983-14  12-19-83    150.02
1984-1   5-9-84      39.01
1984-7   6-25-84     114.02
1984-9   7-16-84     T.S.O. IX
1984-14  10-15-84    31.31
1984-16  10-15-84    40.01 -
                     40.04
1984-19  12-3-84     T.S.O. X
                     151.01 -
1985-17  9-16-85     151.06,
                     151.99
1985-19  10-30-85    T.S.O. X
1985-20  10-30-85    T.S.O. X
1986-2   4-7-86      150.15,
                     150.16
                     130.16,
1986-3   4-7-86      130.17,
                     130.99
1986-7   5-28-86     T.S.O. IX
1986-13  7-22-86     T.S.O. IV
1986-18  10-6-86     50.46
1986-18  10-20-86    50.02,
                     50.45
1986-24  12-30-86    153.01
1987-2   2-18-87     111.02,
                     111.99
1987-3   3-2-87      T.S.O. X
1987-8   5-18-87     T.S.O. IV
1987-15  11-2-87     31.34
1988-1   2-1-88      35.20 -
                     35.22
1988-10  11-21-88    39.05
1988-14  10-17-88    31.15
1988-15  10-17-88    T.S.O. X
1989-1   1-23-89     T.S.O. X
1989-3   2-27-89     150.12
1989-8   4-17-89     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1989-15  6-19-89     91.07,
                     91.99
1989-18  7-17-89     T.S.O. IV
1989-25  9-18-89     T.S.O. I
1990-19  - -90       T.S.O. IV
1990-12  9-10-90     T.S.O. IV
1990-16  12-3-90     T.S.O. X
1990-22  1-7-91      150.13
1991-4   4-1-91      32.16
1991-16  10-21-91    35.85 -
                     35.90
                     92.01,
1991-18  11-18-91    92.03,
                     92.04
—      - -92       T.S.O. IV
1992-1   2-3-92      33.02
1992-3   5-4-92      T.S.O. X
1992-4   5-18-92     35.01
1992-5   6-1-92      T.S.O. X
1992-11  11-2-92     T.S.O. I
1993-2   3-15-93     T.S.O. X
1993-3   3-15-93     T.S.O. X
1993-4   3-15-93     T.S.O. X
1993-6   5-3-93      T.S.O. VI
1993-7   5-3-93      T.S.O. VI
1994-3   5-16-94     T.S.O. VI
1994-6   6-20-94     36.03
1994-8   7-18-94     36.03
1994-13  8-22-94     T.S.O. X
                     37.01 -
1994-17  12-5-94     37.22,
                     37.99
1995-2   4-3-95      T.S.O. X
1995-03  5-1-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-05  6-5-95      35.20,
                     35.22
1995-9   8-7-95      90.10,
                     90.99
1995-13  9-18-95     T.S.O. IV
1995-14  11-6-95     35.21,
                     150.41
1995-15  11-6-95     Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                     III
                     90.01,
1995-16  12-4-95     90.05 -
                     90.13,
                     90.99
1996-1   3-4-96      39.03
1996-02  3-18-96     T.S.O. VI
1996-5   5-6-96      T.S.O. I
1996-9   7-15-96     37.11,
                     37.12
1996-10  8-5-96      T.S.O. X
1996-15  8-31-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-16  11-4-96     130.01
1997-1   2-3-97      150.02,
                     150.60
1997-02  3-3-97      31.16,
                     36.01
1997-03  3-3-97      35.15
1997-06  6-16-97     T.S.O. VII
1997-9   7-7-97      T.S.O. X
1997-12  8-13-97     T.S.O. III
1997-13  8-13-97     T.S.O. IV
1997-17  10-6-97     Ch. 74, Sch. II
1998-1   3-2-98      50.45
1998-02  5-4-98      T.S.O. VI
1998-03  6-15-98     T.S.O. X
1998-4   6-15-98     T.S.O. VI
1998-08  8-3-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-09  8-3-98      T.S.O. I
1998-14  8-17-98     37.07
1999-03  5-3-99      T.S.O. X
1999-04  6-21-99     T.S.O. I
1999-7   7-19-99     130.05,
                     130.99
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     70.99,
                     72.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.99,
1999-13  8-17-99     94.99,
                     111.99,
                     112.99,
                     113.99,
                     115.99,
                     130.99,
                     150.99,
                     151.99,
                     152.99
1999-14  10-4-99     39.03
1999-16  10-18-99    37.15
                     92.01 -
1999-15  12-6-99     92.06,
                     92.99
2000-4   3-20-00     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2000-3   4-17-00     111.46
2000-5   5-1-00      T.S.O. VI
2000-11  8-15-00     T.S.O. X
2000-16  11-20-00    35.27
2001-01  4-2-01      T.S.O. VII
                     31.01,
                     31.15,
                     31.31,
                     31.32,
                     31.34,
                     31.38,
                     32.18,
2001-05  8-29-01     35.67,
                     35.68,
                     35.87,
                     40.04,
                     51.02,
                     70.01,
                     71.47,
                     111.22,
                     111.61
2001-11  1-7-02      Adopting Ordinance
2002-01  3-4-02      92.03
2002-10  8-15-02     31.02
2002-18  11-4-02     35.27
2003-03  3-17-03     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-04  3-17-03     72.06
2003-05  5-5-03      91.25
                     35.20 -
                     35.23,
2003-17  12-15-03    35.25 -
                     35.28,
                     35.30 -
                     35.33
2003-18  12-15-03    Ch. 74, Sch. V
2004-02  4-19-04     32.16
2004-03  4-19-04     37.07
2004-05  5-3-04      Ch. 74, Sch. V
2004-14  8-27-04     T.S.O. VI
2004-15  10-13-04    Adopting ordinance
2004-16  11-15-04    T.S.O. VII
2004-17  10-18-04    111.40,
                     111.47
2005-02  3-21-05     93.25 -
                     93.30
                     150.01,
                     150.02,
                     150.13,
                     150.16,
2005-04  4-18-05     150.25 -
                     150.27,
                     150.60 -
                     150.62,
                     150.99
                     150.11,
2005-05  4-18-05     150.12,
                     154.01,
                     T.S.O. IV
2005-12  8-1-05      154.01
2005-17  10-17-05    71.29,
                     71.99
2005-18  11-7-05     154.01
2006-01  3-20-06     Adopting Ordinance
2006-02  3-20-06     T.S.O. IX
2006-03  3-20-06     154.01
2006-04  6-5-06      154.01
2006-05  6-5-06      31.39
2006-12  11-20-06    35.27,
                     35.30
2006-13  12-18-06    111.40
2006-15  12-18-06    31.40
2007-07  12-8-07     111.40
                     110.01,
                     110.02,
                     110.10 -
2007-08  12-8-07     110.16,
                     110.25 -
                     110.30,
                     110.40,
                     110.99
2008-01  3-3-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-02  3-3-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-04  4-7-08      154.01
2008-11  10-20-08    154.01
2008-12  12-1-08     T.S.O. IX
2009-01  3-2-09      T.S.O. III
2009-08  1-4-10      154.01
                     92.15 -
2010-03  8-23-10     92.20,
                     92.99
                     72.03,
2010-08  12-6-10     72.35,
                     72.36,
                     72.52
                     155.01 -
                     155.13,
                     155.20 -
2010-09  11-15-10    155.22,
                     155.30 -
                     155.36,
                     155.45 -
                     155.51
2011-01  2-7-10      Adopting Ordinance
                     72.08,
                     72.20,
                     72.21,
                     72.50,
2011-04  2-21-11     72.52,
                     72.53,
                     72.60,
                     72.61,
                     72.99
2011-05  4-5-11      117.01,
                     117.02
2011-09  7-11-11     117.01 -
                     117.03
                     92.15,
2011-14  8-16-11     92.19,
                     110.13,
                     110.99
2011-15  11-7-11     32.16
                     35.01,
                     35.20 -
2012-03  4-2-12      35.22,
                     35.27,
                     35.28
2012-04  6-4-12      130.30 -
                     130.34
2012-07  7-16-12     154.01
2012-11  11-5-12     130.33
2013-01  2-4-13      32.16
2013-05  2-12-13     T.S.O. IX
2013-06  4-1-13      72.13,
                     72.52
2013-07  4-1-13      130.02
2013-09  6-3-13      111.40
                     31.30 -
                     31.37;
                     35.20 -
                     35.23,
                     35.25 -
2013-11  6-10-13     35.28,
                     35.30 -
                     35.33,
                     35.65 -
                     35.72;
                     36.04
2013-14  7-1-13      92.21
                     118.01 -
2013-15  8-19-13     118.03,
                     118.99
                     111.01,
                     111.20 -
                     111.22,
2013-16  7-23-13     111.26,
                     111.43,
                     111.47,
                     111.61
                     70.50 -
2013-17  8-19-13     70.53,
                     70.56 -
                     70.58
2013-19  8-5-13      51.99
2013-20  8-5-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-24  10-7-13     T.S.O. IX
2013-25  11-4-13     30.02
                     93.10,
2013-28  10-7-13     93.26 -
                     93.28,
                     93.99
2013-31  11-4-13     35.27
2013-32  10-22-13    31.31
2013-33  12-2-13     93.99
2013-34  3-3-14      30.02
2014-01  2-3-14      Ch. 74, Sch. I
2014-03  2-19-14     110.26
2014-04  5-5-14      154.01
2014-05  6-23-14     92.03
2014-06  6-23-14     32.16
2014-11  6-23-14     Adopting Ordinance
2014-12  6-2-14      110.29
2014-13  7-21-14     154.01
2014-16  11-10-14    T.S.O. VIII
2014-18  12-1-14     70.52
2014-19  12-1-14     154.01
2014-20  12-1-14     154.01
2014-21  12-22-14    T.S.O. IX
2015-01  4-20-15     32.15
2015-02  3-2-15      32.16
2015-04  4-20-15     154.01
2015-05  5-4-15      154.01
2015-10  6-15-15     32.16
2015-11  8-17-15     T.S.O. IV
2015-12  8-17-15     T.S.O. VIII
2015-16  10-5-15     31.36
2015-17  11-16-15    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2015-18  12-21-15    35.20,
                     35.22
2016-01  3-7-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-02  3-7-16      32.16
2016-04  6-6-16      111.20
2016-08  7-18-16     154.01
2016-13  9-19-16     Adopting Ordinance
2016-14  1-9-17      41.01 -
                     41.17
2017-01  1-23-17     32.16
2017-05  3-20-17     T.S.O. VIII
2017-07  5-5-17      154.01
2017-12  6-19-17     72.12
2017-13  7-17-17     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2017-16  8-21-17     39.03
2017-17  11-6-17     91.35,
                     91.99
2017-18  11-6-17     154.01
2017-20  1-9-18      154.01
2018-01  2-5-18      31.30 
2018-02  2-5-18      31.31
2018-03  2-5-18      154.01
2018-04  2-5-18      91.35,
                     91.99
2018-05  6-4-18      35.27
2018-06  1-1-19      110.26
2018-09  7-16-18     T.S.O. IX
2018-10  7-16-18     154.01
2018-14  10-15-18    92.03
2019-01  4-15-19     154.01
2019-02  4-15-19     T.S.O. III
2019-03  4-15-19     T.S.O. III
2019-04  5-16-19     154.01
2019-07  7-15-19     T.S.O. IX
2019-10  8-26-19     T.S.O. III
2019-11  9-16-19     T.S.O. III
2019-13  12-2-19     154.01
2020-05  - -20       39.03
2020-06  - -20       39.06
2020-08  9-24-20     Adopting Ordinance
2020-10  12-7-20     32.16
2021-01  5-3-21      110.50 -
                     110.52
                     42.01 -
2021-05  7-19-21     42.12,
                     42.99
2021-07  8-23-21     39.06
2021-09  12-6-21     T.S.O. III
2021-10  12-6-21     32.16
2022-01  2-7-22      154.01
2022-03  - -22       35.85 -
                     35.90
                     35.22,
                     35.25 -
2022-05  5-2-22      35.28,
                     35.30 -
                     35.33
2022-06  5-2-22      151.03,
                     151.06
2022-07  5-2-22      150.41
                     91.07,
2022-08  5-2-22      91.35,
                     91.45,
                     91.46
2022-14  8-22-22     39.06
2022-15  9-19-22     51.22
2022-18  12-5-22     32.16
2023-01  1-9-23      Adopting Ordinance
2023-02  3-20-23     154.01
2023-04  4-17-23     90.99
                     Ch. 74, Schs. II,
2023-05  5-1-23      III,
                     VI
2023-10  8-14-23     T.S.O. III
2023-12  8-28-23     39.06
2023-16  12-11-23    32.16
2023-18  1-8-24      154.01
                     73.01 -
2024-01  2-5-24      73.07,
                     73.99
                     111.20 -
2024-04  6-24-24     111.24,
                     111.46
2024-06  8-12-24     39.06
                     70.50,
2024-08  8-12-24     70.52,
                     70.53,
                     70.58
2024-11  11-11-24    T.S.O. IX
2024-12  12-19-24    32.16
2025-02  6-2-25      71.29,
                     71.99
                    
 
